SIM GILL

Ralph Chamness

DISTRICT ATTORNEY

Chief Deputy
Civil Division

Jeffrey William Hall
Chief Deputy
Justice Division

Blake Nakamura

Lisa Ashman

Chief Deputy
Justice Division

Administrative
Operations

April 7, 2022
Via email – jcullimore@utah.gov
Utah Office of the Property Rights Ombudsman
Attn: Jordan Cullimore
Re: Tree Farm Request for Mediation
Dear Jordan:
As a follow up to our conversation last week, I write to address the issues raised by Tree Farm, LLC (TF)
in its letter and request for mediation (Request) filed with your office. In the Request, TF asserts that a
proposed amendment to the Salt Lake County zoning code has already imposed a regulatory taking on
TF. Then, based on the County’s proposed legislative amendments to its land use code, TF asserts that it
is entitled to just compensation from Salt Lake County. These assertions are not supported by the law.
Utah Code § 13-43-204 provides that the Ombudsman’s office can mediate disputes involving takings or
eminent domain issues. However, subsection (3)(b) of this section provides that mediation is not
appropriate if, in the opinion of the Property Rights Ombudsman, the issues are not ripe for review, no
cause of action exists (assuming the alleged facts are true), all issues raised are beyond the scope of the
Ombudsman’s statutory duty to review, or the mediation is otherwise not appropriate. For the following
reasons, mediation at this time is not appropriate under this statute.
In his letter, Mr. Bateman asserts that the County is prohibited from adopting or amending ordinances that
prohibit operations that remove “sand, gravel, and rock aggregate,” which are critical infrastructure
materials as defined by Utah Code §§ 17-27a-1001 & 17-41-101. As grounds, Mr. Bateman cited Utah
Code § 17-41-406(6), which limits the County’s ability to amend its existing land use ordinances to
prohibit, restrict, regulate, or otherwise limit critical infrastructure materials operations. However, the
proposed amendments do not include any reference to critical infrastructure materials or critical
infrastructure materials operations, as defined by those statutes. As such, the proposed changes do not
conflict with Utah Code § 17-41-406, and the County is legally entitled to move forward with the
proposed amendments as currently drafted if the County elects to do so. As a point of information,
following the public hearing on April 5, 2022, the County Council voted unanimously to advance the
amendments, and did so based on unanimous public comment in support. The proposed amendments are
enclosed with this letter.
Second, TF claims that because Salt Lake County has initiated proceedings to amend its Forest Recreation
(FR)and Foothills Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ) zoning regulations to eliminate “mineral extraction” as
a conditional use within those zones, TF purportedly has suffered a regulatory taking. However, a
regulatory taking claim is not ripe until a government entity has issued a “final decision” on a particular

35 East 500 South, Salt Lake City, UT 84111
Telephone 385.468.7700 ∙ Fax 385.468.7800 ∙ www.districtattorney.slco.org

use for a particular property. See Pakdel v. San Francisco, 141 S.Ct. 2226 (2021). Indeed, a takings claim
does not arise until a party has actually “been injured by [government] action.” Id. at 2230 (citing Horne
v. Department of Agriculture, 133 S.Ct. 2053 (2013)). Thus, a party may not prematurely sue the
government over a hypothetical harm. See id. Because TF has not submitted a land use application with
the County, the County has not reviewed any information TF might submit with an application and the
County has not made any decision on a potential application, much less denied an application, there has
been no regulatory taking. As a result, there is no dispute to mediate between the County and TF.
Because there is no cause of action, no land use application, and no ripe regulatory takings claim, the
County respectfully requests that you deny TF’s requested mediation. Please do not hesitate to call or
email if you have any questions or want any additional information.
Sincerely,
Salt Lake County District Attorney’s Office

Timothy J. Bywater
Deputy District Attorney
Cc: Brent Batemen brent.bateman@dentons.com
Enclosures

35 East 500 South, Salt Lake City, UT 841111
Telephone 385.468.7700 ∙ Fax 385.468.7800 ∙ www.districtattorney@slco.org

