LEAGUE OF UNINCORPORATED COMMUNITY COUNCILS
BOARD MEETING MINUTES – DECEMBER 28, 2021

211228_001
Mon, 1/24 5:42PM • 1:00:40
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
county, people, sidewalk, facility, john, build, gravel, run, comments, utah state, talk, residents,
ordinance, danielle, meeting, concerns, gravel pit, equestrian, area, state
00:00
Let them in. So Okay, welcome, everyone. And looks like this is our last meeting of the year for luck.
Hope everyone's holidays went good. It's cursor down here. So we'll skip the pledge introductions. Um,
so Daniel, do you want to introduce yourself?
00:25
Sure. I guess I can turn on my video, don't mind me, I might look like Greta, Greta tunberg. I am not
dressed for the occasion. So it's a pleasure to meet you all. I am counseling. Theodore senior policy
advisor, I graduated from the University of Law School. About two years ago, I've been practicing law
ever since. And I was just recently hired on by D in November. So I'm excited to serve at her pleasure
and help you guys in any way that I can.
00:56
Cool. Thanks so much for being here.
01:00
It's a pleasure. Also, I live in San, just to get a little bit of
01:04
Nice, nice. So we meet once a month, it's the fourth Tuesday of every month. And I usually send out
the agenda a day or two before and I text everybody to so just to give them a heads up. And we set the
time at five o'clock so that it wouldn't conflict with the council's four o'clock meeting. Usually they're out
by five o'clock. So if you're running late, just send me a text. And you know, that's, but we're so excited
that you're with us.
01:38
Oh, it's awesome. I heard you guys are great. And Ron, is it alright, if I add you on LinkedIn? That way?
I can message you there as well.
01:46
I'm sure. Yeah. That sounds great. Okay,

-1-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

01:50
I'm going to turn off my video. Because, yeah, I'd rather stay focused on the presentation and whatever,
I could see a video of myself, I get distracted. Sorry.
02:01
No worries. Well, thank you, Danielle, for being here. Um, so the next thing is public comments. It looks
like John joined us. Welcome, John. Do everybody. Yeah, good. All right. So do we have any public
comments, anything to comment about? I don't have anything right at the moment. So John, it looks
like the county council passed that. They want to change the ordinance to not allow that that gravel pit
to go in parleys Canyon. So
02:43
while they voted to rewrite the ordinance, but they've got to have that they've got to have at least three
and possibly four public hearings to get the ordinance changed. Gotcha. I don't know what the schedule
is on those hearings. But I know that's the process to change your image
03:03
below the dam or above the dam, the dam right next door to my property. Okay, well, what the guy
knows, what the guy doesn't know is I've got a bland
03:19
alter from and I don't mean to interrupt, but just as a little bit of context, I don't think there's a single
council member who would be in favor of approving any type of land use ordinance, allowing them to
expand. And I know that there's a bipartisan effort to make sure that, that these public hearings, go
back to back and go off without a hitch. So just so you're aware, my read on the council's is that this is
not going to happen. So
03:47
that's fantastic.
03:49
Yeah, so actually, water said the exact same thing. And surely environmental people have said the
same thing. It's not going to happen. The interesting thing is this guy 50% of the glory that's across the
street down the river, right. He applied to increase his property down there by 60 acres when they
denied it.
04:14
Yeah, those quarries To be honest, I have to admit that I they just scarred the land, down it down by
Draper and the one up by North Salt Lake. And parleys. You know, he's talking to John about this that
on the west side, we've got the biggest open mind pit in the world. And there's so much gravel that
they've already processed that rather than scarring any more areas around us. These contractors
should just do an exclusive contract with Kennecott and buy their waste gravel and soil and and

-2-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

process it you know, there's no reason tend to keep digging up more more and more stuff when we've
got this huge pit out on the west side just doesn't make sense.
05:10
That's a rafter open furnish Canyon is a rafter limestone, because there is a cement plant there that
runs on that limestone. Yeah. All three parties Cana there's all kinds of limestone and that's what they
want. Whether or not there's a limestone out on Kennecott side.
05:28
Oh, yeah, there's got to be happy to load your truck. Oh, yeah. And I mean, it's a win win. You know, it
cleans up their side. They're making money on their waste, and these other guys don't have to dig it up.
You know, there's another gravel pit, I think on Wasatch Boulevard just north of Big Cottonwood too. So
I mean, yeah, I don't know. Well, all right, I'm sure. Any other public comment, guys? Okay, we'll move
on to approval of minutes for October, I send out the transcripts for that. Do we have a motion to accept
those minutes?
06:20
No motion.
06:22
We have a second second. Okay, Bill. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Okay, motion carries.
Next on the agenda is Salt Lake County Planning Commission discussion, changes for adu and Salt
Lake county ordinance. Um, let me pull that up real quick. If I can. Let's see. So you've got the West
Side general plan that the West side's working on. And it looks like they're moving along pretty quick.
They might even be ahead of us a little bit. I'll have to get with Kayla and find out what's going on. I
don't know if you guys looked at this, but it seemed like Kanika was really in favor of of what was going
on? Yeah, I think they're, they're actually a little bit ahead of us. So um, so Phil, did did Kayla do
anything at our last steering committee?
07:35
No, there was only two of us and the other fellow. I don't remember his name. And he said he had been
with the sandy Hills Community Council many, many, many years ago. So I don't know who that was.
And he just, I don't even know how he found out about the meeting. But he was there. So he she spent
some time going over things with him. But I I accident because we weren't going to discuss anything
with with most everybody being gone, and it was just going to be rescheduled.
08:08
Okay. Gotcha. All right. Oh,
08:11
I hold that guy as maybe emailed you because he sounded like he was going to be continuing to come
to this to sand hill meeting again. Like I said, I've never met this guy, but he claimed that he had been
involved way, way back.

-3-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

08:27
It could have been Vaughn or it could have been Marty, or it could have been Rob. We've had quite a
few members come and go so. Yeah. All right. Um, well, I mean, it looks like the West side's plan is
moving along pretty quick. I think like I said, I think Kennecott is pleased with what's going on. You and
the unincorporated residents out there. You know, they're they're working on this. So did you guys have
any questions or comments about this or concerns?
09:11
The letter that Rio Tinto wrote was an interesting letter, you know, didn't say anything that I was
expected to say. comment that, you know, that one day they will close down but they don't know.
09:29
Yeah, I seen that too. Let me pull that up real quick. And so yeah, that was interesting. They Rio Tinto
they go on to say that. I guess they've been having some trespassing issues and on their property so
they're trying to gain enforcement on that and shooting I think too. So they've always had that problem,
though, I think you know, I'd almost want to reach out and send these guys a ladder, and make the
recommendation that that they look into, you know, with I know, years ago, they were just pumping out
tons of sulfuric acid into the atmosphere. And it was killing all the all the vegetation and animals and
everything, it was just scarring the land out there. And then it was recommended to them to capture that
sulfuric acid because the state was really concerned about it. And so they found a way to capture it,
and process it, and they're actually selling majority, I went to one of their meetings, they sell a majority
of that sulfuric acid, up to some soap manufacturing plants in Idaho and various other locations, and
they ship it up in train train cars. And so they're Wait, they're actually collecting that waste. And they're
making just millions on their waist, and it's also cleaned up. So now all that vegetation starting to grow
back and, and the animals are coming back. And it's really cleaned up a lot. But I would almost
recommend to these guys that they sell their gravel and their lime and all their, their, their waste rock.
And I don't know, would you guys be interested if I drafted a letter just making that recommendation?
They might think we're crazy. But
11:46
why not? Why not do it just to see what would call me and
11:48
we get back? Yeah, yeah, let's let's write,
11:53
there may be a restriction where they can't sell it because of contaminants and might contain. I'd like I'd
like to know what the possibility is.
12:04
You know, I'd like to reach out to these other quarries and see if those people would be interested in
the idea of shutting down those quarries and just, and just gathering the processed waste out there
from Kennecott and re and using that for cement and other products. I think I just it seems like a win
win for everybody if something like that could be organized and put together.

-4-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

12:36
Well, my only comment to Iran is first of all that Korea that was so big up there near the mountains, the
Cottonwood Canyon, it's almost it's on its final Lake, is it? Yeah, it's it's been pretty well taken care of.
And there's a little bit still left there. But you know, it's not like once was. The other thing I would say is
that I think the difficulty you're going to be facing is that with the explosive growth that this valley has,
and you know, they provide the the rock for the cement, all that other stuff that goes on, that's where
you're going to run into your biggest bite is especially when you get down there to the point of the
mountain.
13:21
That's pretty big business down there. And you're likely going to be spitting in the wind. So
13:29
you know, it's interesting, though, Phil, is the residents out there that live around that area? I mean,
they're I think they're fed up with all that gravel dust, and they're they've taken a big chunk of that
mountain away. And I think they're getting closer. They might be getting to where they can't do
anymore to I don't know.
13:48
Yeah, the point of the mountain. Absolutely. Yeah, they are. It's it's, you know, it has some limited life to
it, but it's still got life. Yeah. What happens out there with with the President when the prison is taken
down? It's good to have a large impact from all of that out
14:05
there. Yeah, yeah. Well, all right. I mean, if you guys are okay, though, I wouldn't mind drafting a letter
recommending something like that, you know, maybe a legislator, we could write a few legislators and
the County Council and the mayor's office, see if run it by him and see what they think.
14:25
question I have is the quality of material that Kennecott would provide is that the quality that is is equal
to what they would get from these other quarries that are presently open because again, they're using a
lot for making of cement on us if this isn't stuff, the same quality.
14:47
I'm sure it is. I've got some geological maps. I've got some really old ones that you know, and I've got
new ones too that show the different geographical, like, makeup of the earth and the soil in Salt Lake
County, I can send those out to you guys. But I would think that it's the same makeup, you know,
they've dug down into those mountain ranges. And I'm pretty sure it's probably,
15:19
you know, I've often I've often wondered, though, just one thing, and that, you know, when the day
comes that they decided that they're not going to mind that anymore. I mean, that could make one hell
of a landfill. And they could use some of that material to cover each layer of the wet.

-5-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

15:40
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, for sure.
15:44
You can fill it back up again, by by taking everything back over and put the holes.
15:51
Go ahead, Bill.
15:52
So I'm in kind of a country and comment on that. So rock pits, I looked at them from an economic
standpoint, and transmitted transporting sand and gravel, long distances, has huge costs, and you're
also burning a lot of fuel and whatnot. So there's an advantage to having gravel pits fairly close by, but
like the one out at the point, that mountain, and that gravel pit was there long before people started
building houses there. And so I would hesitate to try to pass legislation to force those people out of
business and say, sorry, you have to abandon your rock pit and go get stuff from Kennecott, because
they were there long before people started building houses. And if people buy a house next to a rock pit
that's been in business for decades, my thought is well, you know, that's the homeowners decision to
do that. Right. So he was looking into it just saying, Is it economically viable is anybody to study as to
whether it might be economically viable to take rock out of Kennecott? And that would be very
interesting to look at. There was a rock that in Sandy, that closed down maybe 20 years ago, the quarry
band rock pit that kind of got mined out. So they sold it, and it's now a combination housing and retail
businesses. And I think they did a pretty good job of reclaiming the land so that it doesn't look scarred
up anymore, right. But anyway, I just kind of I'd be a little reluctant to try to start talking about just
forcibly shutting down these rock pits, because they're, you know, there's with road construction and
home construction and everything else, there's just a constant demand for sand and gravel that they
produce. And, you know, good point, trucking it in from 100 miles away, because the costs of the
pollution from the trucking, right. So anyway, just kind of a kind of a little bit of a theory
17:41
there. You know, I think you I think you phrase that just right, Bill, because I think if it's economically
feasible, and I don't know, if anyone's done any studies on it, maybe that's exactly the way we need to
approach it and say, hey, if it's economically feasible, this might be an option to look at that, you know,
it's a win win win for everybody. So
18:03
it wouldn't be at another angle to look at it from is, you know, there might be currently some regulatory
barriers that might make it difficult for Kennecott to sell its waste rock. And from a legislative standpoint,
there might be some way that we could if there are such barriers, we might look at ways to remove
them, or make it more possible. And again, I don't know what the facts are. But I think it's something
that's definitely worth looking into, from an economic standpoint, and regulatory standpoint is, maybe
that's the thing to look towards in the future, because we should all still need to have sand and gravel,
right?

-6-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

18:39
You know, so let me do a little more exploratory stuff on this. And maybe I'll reach out to the University
of Utah. And we could maybe invite somebody like a geologist or something from there, and maybe get
a legislator to attend our next block meeting and see if we can't kind of see where this because I think
it's it may be promising it may be a dead end. I don't know.
19:06
I think it's worth at least looking at. Yeah,
19:08
yeah. All right. Well, we'll work on that then for sure. Okay, guys, um, next on the agenda. Let's see
what else we've got here. Ah, so it doesn't look like Lisa's with us. Tonight. Lisa Hartman. The adu
changes. I sent those out to did I think? Yeah, I, I don't think I can, I'll have to dig for him. I don't have
them pulled up on my computer. But there was some legislative changes. I think they increase the
amount from 5000 to 6000. And they limited the amount how the number of ad use and a particular
area, I think. So those were the two changes. I noticed. Did you guys kind of see anything on that?
20:12
I didn't study enough to see what changes they made.
20:15
I think they were. Yeah, I think they're trying to thin it out a little bit more. They didn't want clusters of ad
use all over. So they're trying to thin it out and they put some more regulatory stuff on there, which I
think is good. It makes sense. So take a look at that when you guys get a chance and we can talk more
about it. I think the county's gonna revamp their proposed adu ordinance. And I think I think they're
going to revamp that and redo it soon as we get that. I'll send it back out to you guys. Um, next on the
agenda is nominations. Oh, yeah, go ahead.
21:03
You're gonna show like any of its owners or any changes on that?
21:07
No, I put that on there with the changes to the adu so they're gonna redo the adu ordinance for Salt
Lake County. So that's going before the planning commission. And but from what I could see, I actually
liked their their ideas that the ledge put in there, so but if I see anything, I'll let you know for sure. Let's
see. Next was least. Yeah, number eight nominations for officers. Do you guys want to just continue the
way we are? Do you want to put some new officers in or? Yeah. All right. Guys want to make a motion
on that?
22:00
I'll make a motion the way it is.
22:03

-7-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

Okay. Second bill. All right. All in favor say aye. Aye. Okay. Any, any discussion? Okay. Motion passes.
All right. Um, and then Community Council concerns and issues? Was there any concerns or issues
that we needed to cover bills that quick
22:26
went from granted. So as you know, like last spring, we had a couple of really good meetings, luck
meetings, where Madeleine went over the various capital projects are the various communities and we
all different communities submitted their requests for future capital projects, and so on and so forth. And
there's this constant, there's this sudden, or what I call it. There's some surveyors who showed up on
3100, East and granite. And a resident went out said, What are you guys doing there? Say, well, we'll
just surveying for a potential future sidewalk along this street. And a lot of the residents have not
wanted a sidewalk there. And it was never announced in any of the plans that I saw. That's neither here
nor there. But yesterday, somebody claimed that they saw a sidewalk actually being built along 3100
nits. And I think they're mistaken. I think what's happening, there's a sidewalk along little cottonwood
road that's been in the works for many, many years. And they finally are getting around to doing it. And
I think they're starting at the quarter of 3100. East. My guess is that they're actually going to cottonwood
sidewalk, which we've known about for years, and everybody's on board with it. But there are some
residents who were worried that it's that they're actually building the sidewalk, the ones 3100 East, and
I think it's just a case of confusion. So I'm going to go down and check it out. But if it turns out they are
building one on 3100, East, they never approached anybody on luck, or granite Community Council
about that. Okay, some false alarm. I'm hoping it's just the sidewalk that's been in the works for a long
time. And if they're doing one on 3100 east without having even talked to anybody, that would be kind
of weird.
24:14
Yeah, yeah. Interesting. All right. Um, that's
24:19
not a big deal. Like, I'll just go check it out. If it looks like they really aren't doing one on 3100. Nice. And
I'll let you know. And I'll let maybe we'll talk to the Theodore and see if she knows anything about it, but
probably a false alarm.
24:33
Okay. All right. Um, I guess those folks don't want to sidewalk on.
24:38
We know, it's one of those things going way back. Even when? Way, way, way back. There was some
kind of agreement that there would never be a sidewalk there right. 40 years ago or something. I don't
know the details. But yeah, a lot of the residents along that road are pretty up in arms about it. And like
I said, I've never heard it proposed by The engineering department or anybody MSD, and they might
bring it up at some future point. So,
25:07
gotcha. Okay,

-8-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

25:09
if they do bring it up, then we can have discussions about it and all that stuff, but it's just kind of popped
up out of the blue.
25:14
So Wow. Okay. Well keep an eye on that. For sure. Let us know what we can do to help. Okay, thanks.
Yep. Any other community council issues, guys? Yeah, go ahead, John.
25:32
Ada on the sidewalk on ADA. is non compliant.
25:37
Not yet. I was gonna head over there. And then that snowstorm hit. So I'm gonna have to, I'll have to
swing over there. On a more decent day, when the snow isn't flying, and bring my tape measure and
see if see if those cuz yeah, what they did was they, they put a sidewalk in, and they literally cemented
mailbox posts, and mailboxes and signs right in the middle of the sidewalk. So we don't think it that it's
ATA compliant. So I'm not sure if that's the county's problem, or the contractor or what's going on. So I'll
get over there. I did take some pictures, but you can't tell unless you take a tape measure over there.
26:28
But I needed somebody to yardstick or so on taking the pictures.
26:33
Yeah. What was your other comments? Or concerns?
26:37
I was not able to attend. And I haven't heard one word about it. But there was a public hearing on the
sale of the Equestrian Center to Utah State University. I can't find anything better. I don't know if they
canceled the meeting or what's
26:54
interesting. Um, does anyone know any? Anything about that? Daniel, do you know anything?
27:01
Yeah, so I think they're opening it up the public hearing this next council meeting for public comment
and hearing. And I think part of that is that it sounded like there was still some options in the works that
they were trying to work out. I can't say for certain, because I I'm only now learning the details of it. And
I know that v is as well. And so it sounds like that may be the route that we're going but it definitely is
open to public comment. I think this next Tuesday.
27:35
So John, he his family and they've been in Phil actually was part of of putting that equestrian center
together. So and they both have horses and stuff. And I think they had some comments on on. They

-9-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

had some concerns and comments on on the sale, how it goes and stuff. I think, John, I think for the
most part, everyone was in favor of transferring that to Utah State University. They feel that Utah State
would do a better job of it. But um, I think there was a concern that the $5 million bond of I think it zap
funds that was set aside to help improve the Equestrian Center. Actually, if there is a transfer of that,
that those funds would not be reallocated somewhere else that they would actually go to helping
revamp and stay with the Equestrian Center. So do you know anything about that?
28:39
My understanding is that it would stay with the Equestrian Center, but I think that they're going to be
making some changes to the properties. Mostly that would affect the track and access to the track. Is
Dee's initial impression is to vote no on it. And we haven't, like I said, we need to see the details before
we give a definitive vote. But our initial impression is we're probably going to vote no. I mean, worst
case scenario, it stays with the county and we just keep throwing money at it. I presume that that's what
would end up happening. But those are answers that we need before we can make an educated, you
know, bow on the issue.
29:22
So John,
29:24
necessarily opposed to it. To maintain access and keep it updated.
29:31
Sorry, think John has some really good information
29:35
that I read. The only thing that could possibly change is the racetrack. And that racetracks just used for
training anyway, because paramutual betting is not allowed in the state of Utah, so they can run legal
races on that track. It's only a practice track. That was the only thing in contention, but what cuts
through the proposal all the rest of the facilities will remain it as they are, Utah State University wants to
build a big educational center. For the for each kid right now four H kids have nowhere to go. The
county shut down three years ago. So all these four H kids, they have to go to Utah County are Weaver
county to do their forage, because so again, it doesn't. Well, Utah State University is an agricultural and
animal husbandry school. And I can't think of a better organization to run the EQ center than those
people because they know what they're doing. And the management has been running the EQ center
the last five years, there are a group of people, a manager, strip malls, and expo centers, they have no
idea what they're doing. So I think it's a plus absolute bonus for Utah State to take that over. You know,
the only comment I'd like to make with respect to it is that I think, frankly, speaking, I think the county
should be embarrassed about how they have handled this over the years. Because frankly, it was, it
was positioned originally to be quite a facility, it really was. But because the county has never wanted to
really support it. It was done. It was it was done primarily back in the day of Commissioner Overson
because there was no place for the county to house its fair. And once the fair was abandoned, there
was for sure no reason to have it anymore. And just as an embarrassment, it's applied on county
management to how they have let that thing be let it go. That's all there is to it. I don't care what

- 10 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

anybody says the blight on county management and how they nobody really gave a damn about it.
And, and John is is spot on with regards to Utah State. Now, the other thing I want to add is that they
still have allow the four h to have their meetings, or there are harsh shows at the at the park. But aside
from that, that's about the spending standard. So I say I agree, probably the best thing that could ever
happen would be for you to a state takeover. And at least that way that they could hold those that put
more houses there because at best but as was South Jordan would really like to see is that that would
be all become residential, ground and everything like that. But it's just really sad catalytic going really
did because it was a, it was a great unit. So beautiful. It was state of the art when it was built better than
anyone next to in some respects even better than the golden spike. As far as the arena was concerned,
and everything of that, but But you know, it just was the canyon will have nothing to do with it. So it's
going to go by the wayside, somebody else will be turned into houses, I guess.
33:26
You would both comment on spot on opinion or send email and I think it'd be really appreciated. But I
think that getting public feedback is right on this issue.
33:39
Now let me share something with John Luke remember this too. There was a point in time, and I forget
which merit was John can help me on when they when he actually they were thinking about getting rid
of it. And he actually came out to the to the equestrian Park. So there was a public meeting out there.
And John, which mayor was that was Ben McAdams writer, and he actually came out there and he was
appalled at how many people showed up. For that meeting, there was 1000s of people that showed up
the water that support and that's always been the safe that that favorite. So you know, we would love to
resonate some more comment for you. It just won't do any good. I may as well go talk to the wall. It's
not going to do any good. It's going to go where it's gonna go. That's all there is to it because you're
one commissioner or you're one tiny person. Winner. What's your full name?
34:40
Amy winter. Yeah,
34:43
she'd like to see a BOGO because she thinks it's a it's an albatross against the counting. You know, the
only support we ever had was, was a couple of the commissioners. I can't remember their names that
actually sat down with us, Todd goes about it. But she was one of them was the leader of trying to get
rid of it, because she felt that it was a drain on the on the county. And you know, frankly, she's right. It
was a drain on the county, because the county would bless it. They've done that private enterprise and
went in and took it over and they did a horrible job of managing it. It was just fell apart. So you know,
the county's getting what they put their money into, which is no money, they just let it be. Just beat up.
And it's It's deplorable. It really is. Because it's a very nice facility. I don't know if you've been down
there. And Sienna is a very nice facility. And just kind of said the question, people will be sad about it. I
don't know how many of them really know it. John, you have any idea how many residents were here?
People might know about this? It has that meeting with Ben McAdams and Amy winter new Rowan
County Council's there. Richard snow grows and bark bark are the only two people on our site to keep
it. Yeah, everybody else was against it. But they thought that probably maybe maybe 50 people show

- 11 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

up? We have 3200 people. Yeah, yeah. We're overwhelmed by the number of people who want to keep
it.
36:23
So I actually have written out there at that facility a few times. Good. I really liked it. I get it. You know,
and I know that he is in favor of doing what's best for the equestrian community. So if you guys want us
to keep it, we'll keep it. You know, that's that's our, my hope would be to see it kept but actually
managed? Well, my concern is that maybe we won't have the management that it requires. Right,
there's going to take expertise and knowledge about updating, maintaining, actually taking care of that
facility. Right. The county hasn't provided in the past. And so personally, between you and I, I feel like
maybe the US EU isn't a bad deal, just because at least it would maintain that area. Like you were
saying, Were there filibustering activities going on there still have more age, you know, accessibility.
Yeah, you're losing out on the track. I actually practiced off the track. So I enjoyed the track. But I
understand why. Why this is going to be seen as an upgrade for money. But why so many would be
saddened. And I like people to come and voice their opinions.
37:39
Loser way to say there is a way to save the dragon still, the sooner the practice used to be a lake now
it's just a dried up swamp. But your Dutch state wants to build a big educational center where the crack
is they can. And I've talked to those people not and they says that's a possibility. They can fill that area
in and build their building inside the track. And so the practice still be there, it will just go around there
begins.
38:12
And there is quite there is quite a bit of land still to the west. Where the soccer? Yeah,
38:20
you know, I will, I will admit to you that this is a very ticklish area because your race track people,
although there's not very many of them, they bark pretty loud. And they will try to tell you that they need
the track. And John's right. In my humble opinion, the track should be used for other types of venues.
So for like that. The second thing that I can honestly tell you with regards to the park, is that I don't
believe the county has ever really tried to promote that facility. Now it's it's a, it's a difficult promotion,
because you have 40 people who would like nothing more than just have more function. That's all.
That's all they want. And they want it completely for themselves and everything like that. But the
problem with it is, is not going to sustain itself with just more people. You have to have other venues
come in. So it becomes a management issue to where you have to be able to have other types of
activities come into it to help cover the cost. And if the county would really seriously work on that. I
believe the horse people would understand that. I think they really would now they wouldn't like it but
they would understand it because they don't they horse people want and mean no harm. I had my
share of horses. The horse people always want their horse facility and they don't want to have to pay
for Okay, and they want it to be the best possible it can be. And so that's a different thing. And this is
where the county I think at some point has just kind of thrown their hands up in the air and says, you
know, this is just a really an ugly, ugly duck. And I don't know, we'd like to get away from it if we
possibly can. And I think that's the problem. But it's a great piece of ground. I remember I remember

- 12 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

when we went down there to the county, we talked about that five or $6 million, one of the things that
they were going to do is they were going to, they were going to make so you could have RVs down
there, and for people who came in with shows and everything, but then they said they had to re redo
the ground for the water and everything like that, you know, it's just one stall after another after another
after another, none of that shit ever got done? No, I don't think now, they didn't do some work on the on
the, on the stalls and everything like that. But I mean, it's just, it's just promoted. And I just don't think
the county has ever had the full integrity of the county behind it really has, like, they have that one up
there on 9400, south of State Street, that that's their hallmark, that is the salt palace or their hallmark
places. But it's multiple use. And that's what they've got to deal with. It was the South Jordan facility.
But I just don't think they really want to do that. I think they found somebody will take
41:21
Well, yeah, Danielle, I think we'll get these guys to write comments. And and I think that, you know,
John, if you can get the word out to a lot of the folks that you know, you know, and I think I think if we
can get those comments into the county,
41:40
what's the status with regards to the county? What are they there? What do we need to inform the
people about?
41:47
So they will have the public notice, that will come out on Monday, or I think it actually comes out on
Friday, is when our public notices available, that you can just pull it up, and it will have all the
attachments detailing everything. In regards to the deal. I have, like I said, I haven't even been able to
look through all the details just yet. I'm going to be sitting down with I think it's Holly on Thursday to go
over every single detail there. Because there's obviously there's a lot of contracts that are all working
together to move this forward. If the county decides to go in favor of moving it in that direction.
42:34
It would be the direction would be to to Utah State.
42:40
That's correct. And so Utah State would be taking over it or would be taking it over and Utah County
would still be giving them some funds to help with that transition. For the first I think three years, I think
three years, maybe even five. But it's all outlined in those contracts. And those will be publicly available,
I believe on Monday. at the latest. In Utah
43:08
County, what did you touch down?
43:12
I think she meant Salt Lake County.
43:15

- 13 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

Utah County, I know I'm in Salt Lake County. Okay. So that will be publicly available. If you just go to
the website and then download the attachments. You can read each one of them.
43:32
It'll probably be posted on the county's website.
43:35
Correct. It's on the county's website. And Ron, I can email it over to you if you want to send it over to
Phil and John, as soon as those are available. Yeah, that'd be great. Before I before I hotshot I did
have one follow up question. That's all right. For Bill. You said what are the cross streets on that
sidewalk? 3100 East and they'll still there.
44:01
Bill? Yeah, he's there.
44:09
He might, he might have stepped away. I know. It's 3100 East? Um, I'll have to I, yeah, I'll send him a
text or something and have him reach out to you and let you know.
44:22
Because we can look into that as well. But yeah, I mean, the more feet back that the council gets the
more you know, the more we know which way to go with this. My concern would be giving it back to the
county if you guys have already had issues with them. To cap them to take it over again. Doesn't make
sense really. But I also don't want to piss off the horse people.
44:51
I don't think it would make it worse people. I think most people would be a static. We have Alamo state
run there. Because if you drive up to Logan Your first date is go look at the equestrian center that they
built in Logan. And then look at the one we've got here. And it's like going from five star hotel to Garvey.
So that's how well you've stayed runs their projects.
45:17
I think the big concern Danielle is the four H kids here at the county fair. They just the county has not
supported the four H kids and the club. And it's just struggled for many years now. And when you have
the State Fair, John, John can explain all of that. But I guess the Salt Lake County kids were just having
a really hard time.
45:45
Yeah, forage kids and FFA kids cannot compete in the State Fair, until they earn points in a county fair.
Okay. It's not just about animals, you look at all the girls in Milan, the foreign agent, and they do our
work. And they make dresses and they make quilts and they do all kinds of good sturdy things. Well,
even the girls can't go to the state fair unless they go to a county fair first. So in order to do that, they
have to go down to Utah County, or weaver County.

- 14 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

46:20
John, if I had four h in my life as a candidate, I knew what four h was. And my parents had told me I
would adopt four h, I learned it for each of those nine
46:27
years old. Awesome.
46:33
Yeah, I think that was a big problem. So the kids have been struggling for many years. And so I think I
think this actually for them would be a great move to go to Utah State. So
46:47
that's good to hear. Thank you guys for the feedback. And I'll pass that along.
46:52
And you know, I know South Jordan City they that's a it's prime land and and the economic, financial
economic benefit from that. You could put a grocery shopping center there something but if if that
equestrian centers run right, it will attract so many more people to it. And it will, it will benefit South
Jordan City tremendously financially. So if it's done, right, just the county hasn't really been interested
in running it right. So
47:26
there's a tremendous amount of revenue that can be made there. We used to have car shows, there is
now Murphy's shows there used to have all kinds of dark shows there. They used to have the farm
equipment show there, the county, where it was all that? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, they really they could be
cat, he just did not want the commissioner, the councilman that have been on the Kennedy did not want
to be bothered with it. Their view was that it was a draw on the rest of the county budget, that it was an
area where they were just not going to get their money. You know, when that was originally built. Let
me just share something with you for purposes of history. When that was originally built, a study was
done. First of all, as county always does their studies. They actually, they asked KPMG to do a
feasibility study of that particular facility. And by the way, it was going to be much bigger than it is right
now. They never did complete the plan. And so KPMG came back after spending $35,000 to study and
basically informed the county, that they would be a tremendous asset to the county. But if the county
was expecting that it would be a complete run of facility without having to have any county assistance
was never going to happen. was never going to happen. They couldn't go and put for four to $5 billion
into that and expected it would be self sufficient. It was never going to make that. And so for that
particular reason the county never was willing to build it. They were never willing to build it all. All they
had was the Sheriff's Posse building out there. And that was arenas that was about the size and then
only because only because Murray decided that they no longer want to have the facility that they had
there that they wanted to build an ice rink and everything there. They kept the county out of what used
to be down there in the very area right down there. You can carry out so the caddy then by the way
they used to use that area for their for their county fair They would use the very fairgrounds. So at that
particular point, they went to the State Fairgrounds. And Jackie, no. State Fairgrounds out there and
make approached her about using it for the purpose of the county fair. If she said absolutely not,

- 15 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

absolutely not, they were not going to be allowed to do that. So they were going to have no place for
the county fair, absolutely no place for the character, we saw a tremendous opportunity. So we went to
read over and we made a pitch, if you will build the Equestrian Center as it is right now there. And it
was we had a foot it was a $4 million project, if you will build that there will be a great place for you to
put the caddies there. And that was an aha moment for him. Because now he was gonna have a place
for his county fair. So not only did he instantaneously find $4 million $2 million more to make it even
better, because it is a nice facility inside. So $6 million was immediately appropriated out of the air. And
they started building the building. And I know this because we were the first ones in there to use it for
our for our horse Council. affair that we had in there. We went up to now that you got to build we would
like to be the first ones in there. And then after that candy County Fair, and that's how that building got
built in wasn't for them. It would never have gotten built. Well, interesting thing is, is it sitting on a piece
of property, the wheeler family donated through the county to build forestry and center. Yeah, so we
need to check and find out that we were family still has titled for the dirt ballot in you know, Maura
Brown, that's how you got the Laurel brown race track was It was right before the dedicated Robert, the
argument that they could never get rid of the moral brow racetrack. I don't think that's true. I think they
still could get rid of the racetrack. They just never have.
52:19
Because that's the nature of that's the nature of, of counting of government type people. They don't
want to piss everybody off. They just want to piss a few people.
52:37
Well, yeah, these guys are a wealth of information. Well, Danielle, yeah. Now if you could pass that on,
I'll pass it on to these guys. And with Bill, I'll contact him and have him send to the location of of his
concerns.
52:58
That sounds great. Thank you guys. Thank you so much, though, for that graphic. I had no idea. So
53:06
I will applaud you for your willingness to step up. Because it is not as chocolate been to. And so what
all of us, it is not the favorite son of many county officials, it just really is not, you know, to put in
baseball diamonds and soccer fields and so forth like that, that that takes care of a lot of folks. Okay.
But we're in a valley where the people who would really like that facility are so small, that when you're
when you're an elected official looking for to get elected, you got to take that into consideration, you
know, you got to take into consideration that issue. And the equestrian Park is just never it's not the
same as it would if it wasn't there and Logan or or Ogden or support or want ship or any of those other
small towns where that both people would just absolutely embrace it. hook line and sinker. This is not
the case.
54:12
You got up to embrace it thus far. It sounds like I mean, even though they dropped the ball, the fact that
you were able to get it going I have money for that. I think that it's I personally think that having a
question Aryan. Like I said, I love for age. I wish I could have done it as a kid. I think that, you know, my

- 16 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

grandparents, at least were farmers and my husband's parents are both farmers in Korea. And I think
having animal husbandry as my background personally, it teaches you responsibility, it grows you as a
person learning these things, especially working with horses you can grow as a human being. And I
think it's good for the community to have that space and to have that ability to do that. And so I think
ultimately, it's a net good. I think the question is, how can we make it better because rarely, what
they've been doing isn't working. And based on what I'm hearing, it's because they're certain council
members aren't, I've never really been supportive.
55:10
I wouldn't completely agree. And I would go one step further. In order for it to really flourished and
reproductive, you have not only a difficult time addressing various councilman, but you have a difficult
time addressing the public. Because, again, the horse people that true horse, people look at that as
their facility, their facility. And yet, realistically, for them to have their facility, they've got to understand
that they've got to be, they've got to make it available for other activities to make the county feel
comfortable with. And that's always been the difficult thing. And I think what's really hard about that, is
that nobody has ever really wanted to try to broach that subject. Okay, they just just easier not to dis to
discuss it. Because it is a ticklish issue. Forth, people want it for horse purposes. And horse, people
who want to for work purposes, wanted cheap, because horses are expensive. And they want it now.
And they want it to be really tough why. And we're just not in a community, to where everybody
embraces that particular logic, whether they do with art, or up and low good or something like that is a
different, it's a different type of community. So it's, it's a difficult issue, because you've got horse, people
who want something, and you got other people want something to, and that's where you've got to put
the two together to make that I agree with Ron, if they ever did do that. It's a great facility, and it would
do very, very well is strategically placed in the valley to where it could be a strong union. And I think
USQ recognizes that, or they wouldn't have any interest in looking at it the right way, or else there
would be no interest in it. And then South Jordan would get what they really like to have that as a
bulldozer go in there. They could put in their own tax base there that they would be able to get money.
That's another thing for you to understand about South Jordan. years ago, South Jordan was a better
community. And then all of a sudden, they realized that they had no tax base. They had no tax base.
So all of a sudden there was a big hurry. And of course down there on what is it job 106 south and
redwood road, but that big shopping center that's down in there. You know, they started to embrace
shopping centers, because they knew they needed the tax base. They sure as hell weren't getting it out
of people in their houses. That's the way it was.
58:01
Right. Well, Danielle,
58:04
interesting thing about Utah State took that over. Anybody and the horse people were supported 100%
You can donate any amount of money you want to a university. Yeah, you're donating
58:25
well, you can donate it, but I I don't know if Oh, I don't know. Yeah, yeah.

- 17 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

58:37
Somebody's donation can't be specialized. Gotcha. Gotcha.
58:47
When you want guys over the specifics, as soon as it's been publicly published, which is my
understanding of either Friday or Monday, earlier, this should be interesting.
58:58
Yeah, I, I think, well, yeah, we'll just have to wait and see. Alright, guys, I think we've taken Daniels
time, and we appreciate your time and, and sitting back. These guys could talk all night. I promise you,
they could talk all night. So I'm just
59:20
appreciate the education and the insights. Thank you guys.
59:23
That was a passion of mine for years and years and years to get that thing built. And it was not.
Anybody talked to me about the equestrian Park, preparing yourself because it was a long, long time.
Since I was nine years old we did for each of the old County Fair and very fairgrounds. Yeah. Wow.
And, Ron,
59:46
if you could also send me that letter that you were talking about potentially drafting? I think that'd be
really helpful. And I do think it's worth, you know, drafting a quick letter to just say, hey, what's the
feasibility of this happening? How can we make this public That's a smart idea.
1:00:01
Okay. Yeah, we'll explore it some more. I think I'm going to reach out to the University of Utah and see
if I can't get some expert opinions and advice because Bill had some really good points in there. So.
Alright guys, well with that, do we have a motion to adjourn? Alright, thanks, guys. Right Thanks,
1:00:24
Dan. Yeah

- 18 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

