January 24, 2022

FILED
JANUARY 25 2022

Utah Department of Natural Resources
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
Attn: Julie Carter
1594 West North Temple, Suite 1210
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
801-538-5340
Juliecarter(&utah.gov

SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

Re: Tree Fat m, LLC Notice of Intention to Commence Mining Operations
Dear Ms. Carter,
I am writing to you in concern of Form MR-LMO which was submitted by Tree Farm, LLC on November
12, 2021, to the Utah Department of Natural Resources. I am asking the Utah Department of Natural
Resources to carefully research how devasting it would be for the at large community if the Department was
to allow another open pit mine to commence operations in Parley's canyon. There are numerous
environmental and health concerns that the Department should seriously consider prior to deciding whether to
grant Tree Farm, LLC, the permission to proceed.
Open pit mining operations are devastating to the environment because it exposes dangerous chemicals
buried in the Earth's crust. Quite simply, limestone cannot be mined without impacting the environment in a
negative way. An open-pit mine will cause vibrations and explosions, land degradation, sinking and
landslides, water pollution (toxic water}, occupational noise pollution and harmful air pollution which can
lead to health-related problems and loss of biodiversity. The dust, noise, and shaking alone, will have a
tremendous negative impact on the Mount Aire community, Millcreek and other Salt Lake and Summit
County residents. There are too many unknown factors of all the harmful effects allowing a large limestone
quarry will cause on the environment. By allowing this project, the beauty of Parleys Canyon and the wildlife
will be greatly disturbed.
Furthermore, Tree Farm has not adequately described how it will ensure that water pollution is mitigated. As
per the Director of Salt Lake City Utilities:
"...sedimentfrom the operation could be washed into Parleys Creek, which flows through an open
channel through much of the city, including Sugar House Park. The director of Salt Lake City's
Department of Public Utilities, Laura Briefer, said she plans to examine the proposal and identify issues
of concern. "Wefeel we need more information. One [concern] is water qualityfrom the proposed
activities. While it's not upstream from our drinking water sources, it is upstream from the city," Briefer
said. "We read through the report. It doesn't really take into consideration downstream water-quality
issues except to say they are going to put BMTs [best management practices] in place to mitigate the
migration of any pollutants or sediments. It doesn't talk about long-term degradation." Groundwater
could also be impacted by the mining operations, which could have a hydrological connection with Mill
Creek Canyon to the south, she said'
My hope is that the Utah Depat ment of Natural Resources will consider my concerns on behalf of the
Richards Family Partnership, a member of the Mount Aire community, and as a citizen that will be negatively
impacted in Salt Lake County. Please consider and investigate the negative harmful effects the mine will have
1Major Limestone Quarry Proposed for Parleys Canyon. Salt Lake Tribune. November 24, 2021

not only on the wildlife population, but the health and wellbeing of the citizens of Salt Lake and Summit
Counties. I am encouraging you and your department to not allow Tree Farm, LLC to mine in this location
which will cause risk and damages to so many.

Respectfully,

Susan Trapp
Richards Family Partnership,
Managing Partner
2313 Creek Road
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84093
801-599-5720

