From: David Zangrilli <drzangrilli@gmail.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: Thank You For Taking This Important Step In Protecting The Wasatch Mountains.
Date: Wed, 06 Apr 2022 15:48:37 -0600
Importance: Normal

Dear Councilman Snelgrove,
I appreciate your reply. I hope now that the Legislature doesn't overrule the wise decision that you and your
fellow Council members have made.
David Zangrilli
On Wed, Apr 6, 2022 at 3:15 PM Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:
Hi David:

Thanks for your support. It is the involved citizen that makes our country work. Please know that I am firmly
opposed to the quarry up Parleys Canyon and was pleased to make the motion to pass the ordinance that will
ban it. The air quality, water quality and aesthetic problems with this proposal are numerous. In addition,
there is no shortage of limestone and places to mine it. Therefore, I believe it is in the best interests of the good
people of Salt Lake County to adopt the ordinance and keep our air and water clean.

Thanks again,

Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: David Zangrilli <drzangrilli@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, April 6, 2022 9:55 AM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Thank You For Taking This Important Step In Protecting The Wasatch Mountains.

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear SLCo Mayor and Council,
Thank you for taking this important step in protecting the Wasatch Mountains. With gondolas, road widening

projects, mines, transportation projects, fuels build up, unprecedented drought, growth and recreation pressures
- there is much more that needs done to protect the Wasatch. The Wasatch deserves protection.
Fortunately, between the Mountain Accord and the recently adopted Wasatch Canyons General Plan, there are
a lot of community vetted actions that we need the leadership of Salt Lake County to implement. We need
robust and dynamic policy to protect our watersheds and public lands. We need inclusive and comprehensive
recreation plans. We need integrated transportation solutions that help all users and visitors to our canyons to
leave their cars at home so that our wild and beautiful canyons are not converted into parking lots and
transportation contraptions.
We look forward to working with you to do better in stewarding and protecting the Wasatch Mountains in Salt
Lake County, for the benefit of current and future generations, improving our quality of life and finding that
sweet spot, where man and nature exist in harmony and symbiosis with one another.
Thank You,
Sincerely,
David Zangrilli
1072 E Quarry View Way
Sandy, UT 84094

