From: "Richard Snelgrove" <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
To: "Beverly Hawkins" <beverlyhwkns@yahoo.com>
Subject: RE: April 5 County Council Meeting
Date: Wed, 06 Apr 2022 16:14:49 -0600
Importance: Normal

Hi Beverly:
Thanks for your interest. It is the involved citizen that makes our country work. Please know that I am firmly opposed to
the quarry up Parleys Canyon and was happy to make the motion to pass the ordinance that will ban it. The air quality,
water quality and aesthetic problems with this proposal are numerous. In addition, there is no shortage of limestone and
places to mine it. Therefore, I believe it is in the best interests of the good people of Salt Lake County to adopt the
ordinance and keep our air and water clean.
Thanks again,
Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Beverly Hawkins <beverlyhwkns@yahoo.com>
Sent: Saturday, April 2, 2022 1:27 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: April 5 County Council Meeting
Councilman Snelgrove:
I support the revision of the Salt Lake County ordinances to prohibit activities of mineral extraction and processing and
mining of quarries or gravel pits in Forest Recreation Zone and the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone.

My strongest objections to such potential activities as proposed in Parley’s Canyon are concerns about air quality. We
already struggle with inversions, smoke from western forest fires, and winds whipping dust in the air in our dry climate.
We’re facing unknown additional air quality challenges from the Inland Port and potentially the further diminishment of the
Great Salt Lake. I can’t imagine how much worse it would get if the regular canyon winds coming down Parleys into Salt
Lake were picking up gravel dust from a mining or gravel pit operation there.

So much of the appeal of the Wasatch Front is the beauty and majesty of the mountains and their proximity for recreational
enjoyment. A mine or gravel pit in Parley’s Canyon would destroy this.

I hope you will vote to support the revised ordinances. Thank you for your time and consideration.
Beverly Hawkins
Salt Lake City

