From: ryan metzger <rmetzger111@gmail.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Thu, 07 Apr 2022 00:07:56 -0600
Importance: Normal

Thank you!
On Wed, Apr 6, 2022 at 2:55 PM Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:
Hi Ryan:

Thanks for your interest. It is the involved citizen that makes our country work. Please know that I am firmly
opposed to the quarry up Parleys Canyon and was happy to make the motion to pass the ordinance that will
ban it. The air quality, water quality and aesthetic problems with this proposal are numerous. In addition,
there is no shortage of limestone and places to mine it. Therefore, I believe it is in the best interests of the good
people of Salt Lake County to adopt the ordinance and keep our air and water clean.

Thanks again,

Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Ryan Metzger <rmetzger111@gmail.com>
Sent: Sunday, April 3, 2022 11:06 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and
processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with
and as part of an operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone
and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone."
With all the growth occurring along the Wasatch front and back, the region simply cannot take another "hit" to

the integrity of the air, water, and ecosystems that sustain our quality of life. I applaud this proposed revision
of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
Ryan Metzger
1773 E Peruvian Cir
Sandy, UT 84093

