FILED
JANUARY 18 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING
Julie Carter <juliecarter@utah.gov>

Proposed TreeFarm Mine in Parleys Canyon
Catherine Raney <catherine.raneynorman@gmail.com>
To: juliecarter@utah.gov

Tue, Jan 18, 2022 at 12:17 PM

Dear Ms. Carter,

I’m writing in regards to the recent Tree Farm LLC application for both a large and small mine. Like
many residents (over 20,000 to date having signed a change.org petition) in the Salt Lake valley, I
have deep concerns about this mining operation.

The application alone should give many pause as to the impact that it will have on Utah’s largest
metropolitan area. Please see below the list of my concerns and why I feel as though it is prudent for
DOGM to deny an application for this operation:
The size and scope of this mine is massive. It will be the largest mine in Utah closest to the
majority population of Utah. The current operating mine in Parleys is estimated at just over 11
acres, the proposed Tree Farm mine is to be 640 acres. That means the current mine is 1.7%
the size of the proposed Tree Farm operation. The current mine has had several complaints
about fugitive dust and impact on the residents of Salt Lake City and now the TreeFarm
proposal would dramatically increase fugitive dust impacting the entire Wasatch front (millions
of people). Furthermore the proposed mine is within 2 miles of the current water treatment
plant for Salt Lake City drinking water. By way of a combination of canyon winds and fugitive
dust, there should be a high level of concern regarding contamination.
As stated in the mining application Tree Farm anticipates to move 140 trucks per day and also
stated there is only one way in and one way out of the canyon. There has been no discussion
regarding access to Mt. Aire canyon and TreeFram has not provided any mitigation efforts to
minimize access impact on the Mt. Aire community.
In regard to truck traffic, TreeFarm has stated they will move 140 trucks per day. This will have
a dramatic effect on the traffic flow and safety of I-80. Who is responsible for ensuring the
freeway and bridge access can handle the load of this increased traffic?.
As mentioned in the press and via their application Tree Farm does not “expect” any negative
implications on the Mt. Aire community, however they have provided no mitigation
demonstrations as to how they will ensure no negative implications.
There are full time residential homes that are within .25 of a mile from where explosive
detonations will occur.
They have also stated they will impact access to the Mount Aire Canyon access via the
one way in and out roadway mentioned.
Currently Mt. Aire canyon sees several rock slides and avalanches per year, there has
been no demonstration of mitigation efforts regarding increased risk exposure here.
Many of the homes receive water via natural springs, again no analysis has been
conducted to minimize any type of disturbances to the water aquifers to these homes
as it pertains to the impact of explosives on the mountain geology.

As mentioned in their application, they have stated they will crush rock to create top soil,
however they have not demonstrated how this will happen or if it is actually feasible.
There are contradictions in the application as it pertains to wildlife. TreeFarm has stated there
is minimal impact to wildlife however in the appendixes of the application it states that silver
mine is a “substantial” and “crucial” habitat for mule deer year round.
Per the application it states that all adjoining neighbors where notified which per neighbors
listed on the document, several attest they were not notified of the mining operation by
TreeFarm but rather via the Salt Lake Tribune article.
As stated in the hydrology report provided by AECOM no field work was concluded as part of
their evaluation. This is highly concerning and speculative on TreeFarm’s part as water is a
scarce resource across the entire state of Utah. I encourage you to read the last page of the
AECOM report where it clearly states they provided a subsurface investigation and cannot
eliminate all the risks associated with the site. Water usage and contamination of drinking
water is of grave concern.
Carbon emissions – There is no disputing science, limestone extraction is one of the greatest
contributors to greenhouse gas emissions in the mining industry. Knowing that the goals of
Salt Lake City and County are to be carbon positive by 2030, the Tree Farm mine would be
contrary to any of those goals. It would also be one of the largest carbon emissions producing
operations in Salt Lake.
This size and scope of this mine would make it one of the closest mines to an urban
population. It will dramatically change and scare the Wasatch front in perpetuity.

For the reasons listed above amongst many more grave concerns I do hope that you will take action
to deny this operation. If there is anything the past several years have taught us as a society, risk
should be evaluated and scrutinized at the highest levels. There has been a minimal risk assessment
associated with this proposal. Please consider the well-being of the entire Wasatch front, our water,
air and quality of life.

Thank you for your consideration,

Catherine Raney Norman

