From: Hannah Whitney <hannahbwhitney84@gmail.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Sat, 02 Apr 2022 00:18:10 -0600
Importance: Normal

Thank you and that is great to hear.
Hannah
On Fri, Apr 1, 2022 at 4:13 PM Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:
Dear Hannah:

I agree with you that the proposed quarry would be very damaging to the area and to our air and water quality.
I fully support the draft ordinance and will be a yes vote when it comes up next week.

Thanks for your support.

Sincerely,

Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Hannah Whitney <hannahbwhitney84@gmail.com>
Sent: Friday, April 1, 2022 1:05 AM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
Please know that my opposition to this mine is so much more than simply not wanting a big ugly mine in "my
back yard". Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor
air quality and sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the economic

future of our state. I'm astounded that this proposal is being considered. To this end, I support the
recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County Planning
Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and
processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with
and as part of an operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone
and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone."
Further industrialization of the Wasatch’s land and water resources is inconsistent with the values of our
communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this proposed revision of the
ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention and don't hesitate to contact me if about the most meaningful ways
community members like me can have an impact in this process.
Sincerely,
Hannah Whitney
482 E 11th Avenue
Salt Lake City, UT 84103

