Haley Sousa (No. 14333)
Charles A. Lyons (No. 17583)
Assistant Attorneys General
Sean D. Reyes (No. 7969)
Utah Attorney General
1594 W. North Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
Tel: (801) 538-7227
Attorneys for Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
BEFORE THE BOARD OF OIL, GAS AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
STATE OF UTAH
In the matter of the Request for Agency Action of
TREE FARM, LLC for a declaratory ruling
regarding (1) the completeness of Tree Farm’s
NOI-SMO S/035/0053; and (2) the sufficiency of
Tree Farm’s proposed reclamation surety.

DIVISION’S RESPONSE TO
PETITIONER’S REPLY TO THE
DIVISION’S RESPONSE
Docket No. 2022-002
Cause No. S/035/0053

The Division of Oil, Gas and Mining (“Division”) hereby respectfully submits this
Response to Tree Farm, LLC’s (“Petitioner”) Reply to the Division’s Response (“Petitioner’s
Reply”).
Petitioner contends the Division failed to address two items: “(1) The Division has never
in its history ‘denied’ a complete notice of intention for small mining operations; and that is
because (2) the Division lacks authority to ‘deny’ a complete notice of intention for small mining
operations.” Petitioner’s Reply, p. 1.
The Division admits that (1) above is true. Specifically, the Division has never in its
history denied a complete Notice of Intention for Small Mining Operations (“Small Mine NOI”).
However, the Division has never in its history simultaneously received an application for a Small
Mine NOI with an application for a large mine operation (“Large Mine NOI”). Regarding (2)
above, Petitioner summarily dismisses the Division’s argument that if “approval” is not allowed
1

for Small Mine NOIs, then any provision in the Mined Land Reclamation Act (“Act”) discussing
an approved Notice of Intention (“NOI”) cannot therefore be applicable to small mine
operations. The Division encourages the Board of Oil, Gas and Mining (“Board”) not to dismiss
this concern as Petitioner has. Adopting Petitioner’s interpretation of the Act would have
widespread implications for the Division’s future administration of the Act and the Division’s
Administrative Rules (“Rules”).
I. The Division’s Interpretation of the Act Considers the Entirety of the Act
Petitioner states the Act does not allow the Division to deny a Small Mine NOI because
the Act states that Small Mine NOIs need not be approved. Therefore, Petitioner reasons, the
Division does not have the authority to approve or deny Small Mine NOIs and the Division’s
only option upon receipt of a Small Mine NOI is to review it for completeness. Despite
Petitioner glossing over the Division’s arguments, if the Division cannot approve or deny Small
Mine NOIs, then the Division cannot enforce provisions of the Act that are applicable to
“approved” NOIs. As stated in the Division’s prior briefing, this leads to the absurd
consequence that the Division cannot require small mine operators to post bond, to reclaim, to
amend their Small Mine NOIs, etc. Division’s Opposition, p. 7. Additionally, as noted in the
Division’s prior briefing, small mine operators would be forbidden from selling their mines
without reclaiming first, and their permits could be temporally limited, as the Division may only
process change of operators for approved NOIs, and only approved NOIs are valid for the life of
the mine. Id. at 7-8.
The Act provides a remedy for this unique situation. The Act states “approval of a notice
of intention may not be refused . . . until the operator . . . has had an opportunity to request a
hearing before the board.” Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-16. The Division did not deprive Petitioner

2

of the ability to mine. Rather, the Division determined the best route to give effect to the entire
act was to focus its attention on processing the Large Mine NOI, and Petitioner would be
allowed to request a hearing before the Board on its Small Mine NOI if it so desired. This gives
full weight to the intent of the Act while affording Petitioner with the protection of an
administrative hearing.
II. The Division is Interpreting the Act Due to Extraordinary Circumstances
Petitioner accuses the Division of abusing its discretion in denying its Small Mine NOI.
The Division strongly opposes this accusation. The Division has never in its history
simultaneously received both a Small Mine NOI and a Large Mine NOI for the same site –
something the Act does not contemplate. In light of this unprecedented event, the Division
determined the most appropriate course of action was to focus its attention on processing the
Large Mine NOI. This course of action allows the Division to best promote the intent of the
entire Act and to allow for robust public and governmental participation in the process, while
also promoting administrative efficiency in streamlining the review process. This course of
action also allows the Division to look at the totality of the circumstances. Because the Division
was faced with an application demonstrating Petitioner’s intent to disturb 634 acres, the Division
could not simply ignore this fact while processing the Small Mine NOI. Instead, the Division
decided that the Large Mine NOI disturbance should disqualify the Small Mine NOI, since 634
acres is clearly above the 20-acre threshold for small mines in unincorporated areas. The
Division firmly asserts this decision is not an abuse of discretion but the best and only logical
decision that comports with the intent of the Act.

3

III. The Act Does Not Contemplate Simultaneously Filling Two NOIs for the Same Site
Petitioner correctly notes that it could have submitted its Small Mine NOI with no
mention of its intention to submit a Large Mine NOI, a fact the Division does not contest. Had
Petitioner done this, it is likely the parties would not be before the Board. Unfortunately, that is
not what Petitioner did. Instead, Petitioner took the extraordinary step of submitting both
applications on the same day. In response, the Division reasonably interpreted the Act and
determined the Division should focus its efforts solely on the Large Mine NOI.
Petitioner states it has the intent to move forward with two operations:
Tree Farm filed both the [Small Mine NOI] and the [Large Mine NOI] together,
signaling the intent to move forward with two operations. One of which is a small
mining operation that disturbs no more than 20 acres. The other is a large mining
operation. But each operation will be appropriately bonded and fully compliant with
all applicable regulations.
Petitioner’s Reply, p. 9-10. As stated in the Division’s Response, this is not allowable under the
Rules and the Division has always interpreted the Act and Rules to forbid this. Division’s
Opposition, p. 3-4. As discussed in more detail in the following section, and as demonstrated in
Petitioner’s exhibits, when small mine operators wish to expand operations beyond the threshold
of a small mine, the small mine permit is terminated upon issuance of the large mine permit. See
Petitioner’s Exhibit D, p 114. Here, Petitioner’s small mine footprint is entirely encompassed
within the large mine footprint. See Division’s Exhibit 2, attached hereto. As demonstrated by
Petitioner’s simultaneous permit applications, Petitioner’s only intent is to commence large mine
operations – nothing else. Petitioner would never be allowed to have both a Small Mine NOI
and a Large Mine NOI covering the same footprint, for reasons set forth in the Division’s prior
briefing. Division’s Opposition, p. 3-4.

4

In simultaneously applying for the Small Mine NOI and the Large Mine NOI, Petitioner
is requesting the Division allow Petitioner to break ground for the purposes of large mine
development prior to the large mine permit being issued. The Rules define “development” as
“the work performed in relation to a deposit following its discovery, but prior to and in
contemplation of production mining operations. Development includes, but is not limited to,
preparing the site for mining operations . . . and constructing roads or ancillary facilities.” Utah
Admin. Code R647-1-106. Further, “mining operations means those activities conducted on the
surface of the land for the exploration for, development of, or extraction of a mineral deposit,
including, but not limited to, surface mining and the surface effects of underground and in situ
mining, on site transportation, concentrating, milling, evaporation and other primary processing.”
Id.
Because the Division received both the Small Mine NOI and Large Mine NOI, it had no
other choice than to view the two applications together. Taken together, it demonstrates that
Petitioner is seeking to engage in development and mining operations for the large mine under
the guise of a Small Mine NOI, rather than following appropriate procedure to obtain a permit
for large mine operations prior to engaging in development and mining activities. This
contravenes the Rules and undermines the public participation requirement necessary for the
Large Mine NOI application process. See Utah Admin. Code R647-4-116. While Petitioner
states it is lawfully allowed to submit both applications on the same day, the Act doesn’t
expressly allow this and doing so circumvents the Act by allowing Petitioner to develop the large
mine without having a permit for the large mine. This should not be allowed. Given Petitioner’s
clear intent to pursue large mining operations, Petitioner should not be able to engage in mining
activities or development designed for the Large Mine NOI without a large mine permit.

5

a. Petitioner Confuses the Concept of Double Permitting
As noted above, the Division stands by its statement that it has never double permitted a
site. Petitioner confuses the process of converting a Small Mine NOI to a Large Mine NOI,
confusion which is demonstrated by Petitioner pointing to the Coyote Pit in Tooele County. The
Coyote Pit was historically a sand and gravel operation but when it mined into bedrock, it was
cited in 2019 for operating without a permit. Mr. Jesse Lassley, the principal behind Petitioner,
owns the property on which the Coyote Pit sits.
Petitioner falsely states that the “Division’s files are full of instances where both a small
mine and a large mine are permitted simultaneously on the same piece of ground.” Petitioner’s
Reply, p. 10. Petitioner states the Coyote Pit is subject to both small mine and large mine
permits. As seen in Petitioner’s Exhibit D, p. 114, this statement is false. When the operator of
a small mine expands and applies for a Large Mine NOI, the Small Mine NOI terminates upon
issuance of the Large Mine NOI, which is exactly what happened with Mr. Lassley and the
Coyote Pit. As seen in Petitioner’s Exhibit D, the Division notified Mr. Lassley of this fact,
through his operator. Yet Petitioner ignores this official Division correspondence in order to
advance this baseless argument.
Petitioner states that “a notice of intention to commence small mining operations and a
notice of intention to commence large mining operations were both submitted in 2019 and the
Division processed and approved both.” Petitioner’s Reply, p. 10-11. While this statement is
true it is also deceiving. Petitioner fails to mention is that the Small Mine NOI was submitted in
February 2019 and approved in March 2019. However, the Large Mine NOI was not submitted
until September 2019 and not approved until December 2019. Once the Large Mine NOI was
approved, it replaced the Small Mine NOI. See Petitioner’s Exhibit D, p. 114. At no point was

6

the Coyote Pit, or any other mine for that matter, ever subject to both a Small Mine NOI and a
Large Mine NOI.
Despite Petitioner’s statement that the Division’s files are full of such instances,
Petitioner fails to point to even one, and will never be able to point to one, because it is patently
false. Furthermore, the Rules do not allow the same site to be subject to both a Small Mine NOI
and a Large Mine NOI. The Division’s rules applicable to small mines require that a Large Mine
NOI be filed with and approved by the Division prior to expanding an operation beyond the
definitional threshold for small mines. Utah Admin. Code R647-3-114. Similarly, the
Division’s large mine rules allow for operators to convert their permits to Small Mine NOIs if
they reclaim their operation to under the definitional threshold for small mines. Utah Admin.
Code R647-4-118(3).
Finally, Petitioner accuses the Division of not following its procedures with respect to
disallowing double permitting because the Division began processing both after accepting the
two NOIs and permit fees. As the Division stated numerous times, the Division has never been
in a position where both NOIs were submitted on the same day. Division staff who accepted the
materials were not in a position to make legal or policy determinations. Rather, Division staff
took reasonable steps in accepting both NOIs and then bringing it to management attention.
Because the Division is subject to short turnaround times for reviewing NOIs, it was reasonable
for Division staff to begin processing the Small Mine NOI while the matter was discussed
internally with the Division’s legal counsel.
b. Administrative Efficiency Results from the Division’s Interpretation
The review process for both Small and Large Mine NOIs is an iterative process. In its
review, the Division identifies deficiencies and notifies the operator of those deficiencies to

7

correct. Oftentimes, in response to the corrections provided by the operator, new deficiencies are
identified. Other times, while waiting for the operator to correct the identified deficiencies, the
Division will identify additional deficiencies. As the Division reviewed the Large Mine NOI, the
Division found that both the Small and Large Mine NOIs contained the same or similar
deficiencies. Had the Division continued to review both applications, the Division would have
had to duplicate efforts in getting the deficiencies corrected in two places. Because the Large
Mine NOI will control the entire site once that permit issues, the Division has already realized
administrative efficiency by going through this iterative process with one NOI rather than two.
Petitioner cites to this Board action as evidence that administrative efficiencies were not
realized. This ignores the fact above, that Division staff already realized administrative
efficiency in focusing its attention on the Large Mine NOI. Petitioner’s decision to submit both
NOIs simultaneously led to this Board action. Had Petitioner simply filed a single Large Mine
NOI consistent with its intent to operate a large mine, rather than attempt to engage in large
mining operations under the guise of a Small Mine NOI, the parties would not be before the
Board.
IV. Petitioner’s Small Mine NOI is Incomplete
Again, the process for reviewing NOIs, both large and small, is iterative. Petitioner
encourages the Board to ignore this fact and find its Small Mine NOI complete despite clear
evidence that the Small Mine NOI is incomplete. Petitioner asserts that because it responded to
the Division’s first inquiry that the matter is settled. However, in the iterative review process,
the Division identified additional deficiencies with Petitioner’s responses. Additionally,
Petitioner pasted 2019 bond calculations from the Coyote Pit into the current Small Mine NOI
rather than obtain current 2021 figures. Because of this, even if the Board were to determine that

8

the Division should not have denied Petitioner’s application, the application is nonetheless
incomplete and must be remanded to the Division to ensure that Petitioner corrects the
deficiencies.
V. Petitioner’s Claims Regarding Vested Mining Use are Outside the Scope of the
Board’s Jurisdiction
Petitioner asserts that because the Division raised concerns about its ability to obtain
permitting from Salt Lake County that it must apprise the Board of its vested mining use. To be
clear, the Division is not withholding the Small Mine NOI until Petitioner obtains the requisite
permitting. To the contrary, the Division’s permit is often the first step and required by an
operator as a prerequisite to obtaining the later permits. The Division takes no position regarding
Petitioner’s vested mining use because neither the Division nor the Board have jurisdiction to
make a ruling on that issue.
To clarify the record, the Division notes that it did not only comment on Petitioner’s
ability to obtain permitting from Salt Lake County. Rather, the Division pointed to a series of
other permits that Petitioner may need. Specifically, the Division stated: “Petitioner will need
several permits in order to mine under the Large Mine NOI, including but not limited to, water
discharge permits, a fugitive dust permit, a storage tank permit, a conditional use permit,
possibly a takings permit, among others. The denial of any one of these permits would preclude
Petitioner from mining.” Division’s Opposition, p. 3, fn. 2. The Division did not point to these
other permits as a basis for denying the Small Mine NOI. Rather, the Division pointed to these
other permits to demonstrate the necessity of active collaboration with other governmental
organizations, as required by the Act and as justification for the interpretation that the Division
should focus its attention on the Large Mine NOI. See Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-22. Allowing the
Petitioner to engage in mining activities on the large mine under the guise of a Small Mine NOI
9

would be irresponsible of the Division because these other permits necessary to operate a large
mine may or may not be granted by other state and federal regulatory agencies.
Petitioner’s arguments related to vested mining use are irrelevant to the current
proceeding, outside the scope of the Board’s and Division’s jurisdiction, and should be stricken
from the pleadings.
VI. Conclusion
Petitioner has correctly noted that the Division has never denied a Small Mine NOI. But,
the Division has never received a Small Mine NOI and a Large Mine NOI on the same day. In
light of this very clear intention to engage in development and mining activities for a large
operation under the guise of a Small Mine NOI, the Division did its best to interpret the Act to
give weight to its purpose, to promote administrative efficiency, and to allow for public
participation before any mining occurs on the site. While the Act doesn’t expressly forbid filing
both Small and Large Mine NOIs simultaneously, neither does the Act expressly allow it. The
Division asserts that it appropriately interpreted the Act and respectfully requests the Board
uphold its denial. Alternatively, if the Board rules in favor of Petitioner’s request, the Small
Mine NOI is incomplete and must be remanded to the Division to ensure the operator cures all
deficiencies.

10

Respectfully submitted this 10th day of February, 2022.
UTAH OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
__________________________________
Haley Sousa
Charles A. Lyons
Assistant Attorneys General
1594 West North Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84116-3154
Tel: (801) 538-7227
Email: hsousa@agutah.gov
calyons@agutah.gov
Attorneys for the Division of Oil, Gas and Mining

11

Division’s Exhibit 2

12

Legend
Red Line: Petitioner’s Small Mine NOI Permit Boundary
Purple Line: Petitioner’s Large Mine NOI Permit Boundary

13

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that, on this 10th day of February, 2022, I caused a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Division’s Response To Petitioner’s Reply To The Division’s Response to be sent
electronically to the following:
By email:
Michael E. Begley
Assistant Attorney General representing
the Board of Oil, Gas and Mining
mbegley@agutah.gov

Scott Baird
Salt Lake County, Director of Public Works
scottbaird@slco.org

Stephen E.W. Hale
Daniel A. Jensen
Justin P. Matkin
Kassidy J. Wallin
Attorney’s representing Tree Farm, LLC
shale@parrbrown.com
djensen@parrbrown.com
jmatkin@parrbrown.com
kwallin@parrbrown.com

Lupita McClenning, Director of Planning and
Development
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Greg Baptist, Stormwater Inspection Supervisor
lmcclenning@msd.utah.gov
gbaptist@msd.utah.gov

Rebecca Hotze
Roger Kesterson
United States Forest Service
rebecca.hotze@usda.gov
roger.kesterson@usda.gov

Greg Sheehan
Bureau of Land Management
blm_ut_so_public_room@blm.gov
H. Michael Keller
Tanner J. Bean
Attorneys representing City of Millcreek
mkeller@fabianvancott.com
tbean@fabianvancott.com

Janelle Eurick Bauer
Timothy Smith
Attorneys representing Save Our Canyons
jbauer@joneswaldo.com
tsmith@joneswaldo.com

Evan S. Strassberg
Steven J. Joffee
Attorneys representing Richards Family Partnership
esstrassberg@michaelbest.com
sjoffee@michaelbest.com

Rulon Harper
c/o Amber Harper
amber@harpercompaniesinc.com

E. Russell Vetter
Attorney representing Salt Lake City Corp.
Rusty.vetter@slcgov.com

______________________________
14

