FILED
January 24, 2022
Department Of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Attn: Julie Carter
juliecarter@utah.gov

JANUARY 24 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

I am writing as a concerned citizen and property owner within Mount Aire Canyon. I
also have great concerned for family members and close friends within the Mount
Aire, Canyon Rim, Sugarhouse areas regarding the application for mining of the
Wasatch Mountains by Jessie Lasley, owner of Tree Farm LLC.
I struggle with the idea that a company or persons of a company would have a desire to
decimate for profit the beauty of the Wasatch Mountain range. This proposed mine as
I see it would generate and add to an already dangerous pollution issue from the
existing Kilgore pit. The proposed Tree Farm operation would increase silica
contaminates approximately twenty-six times more than what is already being dumped
on those living bellow the Parleys Canyon opening. Why would we allow one man’s profits
supersede the health of those downwind? It just doesn’t make sense to me. As fulltime
residents of Mount Aire we would certainly be bombarded with mining operations from
blasting, dust, and light pollution. Reduced watershed caused by the removal of
aquifers, decimation of the elk herd that currently traverses the mountain range.
Added traffic that will pass by the Mount Aire Canyon entrance.
As I understand the application, its required that Mr. Lassley provide a plan and
earmark fund for the cleanup when operations close, 100 years from now, what a joke.
I’m not an expert on the environmental impact that this mine will create but I have
lived long enough to know that this is a very bad idea for all of Salt Lake and
surrounding areas, or should I say for all of Utah!
I’m sure this isn’t the only place that has dirt and rocks exist. Please, please, please, I
beg of you, say NO and close the door on this mine request!
Joel Wyner
Mobile #801-860-2788
PO Box 91112
2183 Pratt Loop Rd.
Salt Lake City, UT 84109

