From: Diane Walker <dianewalker0206@gmail.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Sat, 02 Apr 2022 09:45:52 -0600
Importance: Normal

Thank you so much!
Sent from my iPad
On Apr 1, 2022, at 4:22 PM, Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:

Dear Diane:
I agree with you that the proposed quarry would be very damaging to the area and to our air and water
quality. I fully support the draft ordinance and will be a yes vote when it comes up next week.
Thanks for your support.
Sincerely,
Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Diane Walker <dianewalker0206@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, March 31, 2022 4:10 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
I was so angered and saddened to hear about the proposal by Tree Farm LLC to commence large mining operations in
Parleys Canyon. What a cynical name for a company that seeks to destroy this beautiful and wild canyon. Extractive
industries show no mercy in their greed and no concern for the health of Salt Lake City residents and preservation of
wildlife habitat and through ways.
It’s up to you, our elected leaders, to protect the Wasatch we know and love!
I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County Planning
Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine;
quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for
the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons

Overlay Zone."

Thank you for your time and attention.
Keep up the good fight!
Sincerely,
Diane Walker
1466 S 400 E
Salt Lake City, UT 84115

