From: "Phyllis" <paisnow@comcast.net>
To: "Richard Snelgrove" <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Fri, 01 Apr 2022 21:44:27 -0600
Importance: Normal

Thank you. And I especially want to commend you for voting against the transgender bill. Just
when I think the Legislature can’t get any worse, they pass something like this. There is more to
governing than throwing out “red meat” issues just to get people riled up. Please get back to real
issues like water and our terrible air – and I’ll throw in gerrymandering while I’m at it!
Phyllis Anderson
From: Richard Snelgrove
Sent: Friday, April 1, 2022 4:15 PM
To: Phyllis Anderson
Subject: RE: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.

Dear Phyllis:
I agree with you that the proposed quarry would be very damaging to the area and to our air and water quality.
I fully support the draft ordinance and will be a yes vote when it comes up next week.
Thanks for your support.
Sincerely,
Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Phyllis Anderson <paisnow@comcast.net>
Sent: Thursday, March 31, 2022 8:03 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air quality and
sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the economic future of our state. To this
end, I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County Planning
Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine;
quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for
the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay
Zone."

Further industrialization of the Wasatch’s land and water resources is inconsistent with the values of our communities. It
threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak
loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.

Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
Phyllis Anderson
2442 E Newcastle Dr
Sandy, UT 84093

