From: William Marsden <wgmarsden48@gmail.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Wed, 06 Apr 2022 16:09:44 -0600
Importance: Normal

Richard,
And my thanks to you for your actions!
Bill
On Wed, Apr 6, 2022 at 3:33 PM Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:
Hi William:

Thanks for your interest. It is the involved citizen that makes our country work. Please know that I am firmly
opposed to the quarry up Parleys Canyon and was happy to make the motion to pass the ordinance that will
ban it. The air quality, water quality and aesthetic problems with this proposal are numerous. In addition,
there is no shortage of limestone and places to mine it. Therefore, I believe it is in the best interests of the good
people of Salt Lake County to adopt the ordinance and keep our air and water clean.

Thanks again,

Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: William Marsden <wgmarsden48@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, April 4, 2022 11:17 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
As a sixth-generation Utahn and grandfather of six, all living within a few minutes of the Cottonwood
Canyons, I strongly support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the

Salt Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon
Overlay Zones.
I further support the revision of the Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction
and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection
with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation
Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone."
Mining and other extractive uses of the Wasatch’s land and water resources are inconsistent with the values of
our communities. They threaten our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud the proposed ordinance
revision, which will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
William Marsden
11445 S Wyndcastle Dr
Sandy, UT 84092
-William G. Marsden
(801) 455-8411

