FILED
MARCH 21 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

Scott. D. Williams, M.D.
316 K Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103
801 580-3127
sdwilli@gmail.com

March 20, 2022

Dear Members of the Board of the Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining,

I’m writing again with regards to the recent motions filed regarding Docket No. 2022-002- Request for
Agency Action of TREE FARM, LLC.
In the Division’s Motion for Policy Guidance filed on March 17, 2022, they state that in order to assure
“the general safety and welfare of the citizens of Utah are protected from adverse effects of mining, the

Division posits that perhaps there should be heightened scrutiny of mining operations in populated
areas.” They go on to suggest that the laws and/or regulations governing Small Mining Operation NOIs
in populated counties should be changed to reduce the amount of acreage, allow for public input,
explicitly require division approval, and require more detailed reclamation plans.
Now that these suggested changes have been made public, property owners, developers and operators
who may have been considering filing SMO NOIs in populated counties at some point in the future have
been incentivized to do so immediately before any changes are made to the regulations or laws
governing SMOs.
Therefore, as provided for in Utah Code 40-6-10 (5), as an interested person, I hereby petition you to
impose a moratorium on SMO NOIs in Class 1 and Class II counties. I further request that the
moratorium be in effect from the date of the filing of the Division’s Motion for Policy Guidance and
continue until the board responds to that motion and any policy changes recommended by the Board be
either adopted or rejected.
The Motion to Dismiss Agency Action for Mootness, does not change the fact that it is still the intention
of Tree Farm, LLC to develop a large mining operation and they have now simply changed tactics and
are attempting to use a loophole in the regulation to jump start their large mine by initially pursuing only
an SMO NOI. The Division and the Board cannot now just pretend like they aren’t aware of Tree
Farm, LLC’s intention. The emergency order I’m petitioning for in the above paragraph would delay
Division action on Tree Farm LLC’s new SMO NOI, until the flaws in the regulation of SMO NOIs in
populated counties, described in the Division’s Motion for Policy Guidance, are resolved.
Sincerely,

Scott Williams

