From: Felicia <flobopp@yahoo.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Thu, 07 Apr 2022 06:49:27 -0600
Importance: Normal

Mr. Snelgrove,
Thank you very much for your response. I was happy to hear how the council voted. I hope things come out how
the majority of people would like.
Sincerely FELICIA ALVAREZ
On Apr 6, 2022, at 3:48 PM, Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:

Hi Felicia:
Thanks for your interest. It is the involved citizen that makes our country work. Please know that I am firmly opposed to
the quarry up Parleys Canyon and was happy to make the motion to pass the ordinance that will ban it. The air quality,
water quality and aesthetic problems with this proposal are numerous. In addition, there is no shortage of limestone
and places to mine it. Therefore, I believe it is in the best interests of the good people of Salt Lake County to adopt the
ordinance and keep our air and water clean.
Thanks again,
Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Felicia Alvarez <flobopp@yahoo.com>
Sent: Monday, April 4, 2022 10:45 AM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air quality and
sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the economic future of our state. To
this end, I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County
Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine;
quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for
the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons
Overlay Zone."

Further industrialization of the Wasatch’s land and water resources is inconsistent with the values of our communities. It
threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak
loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.

Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
Felicia Alvarez
1180 Kensington Ave
SLC, UT 84105

