From: Michael Shannon <mike.eva@comcast.net>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Tue, 05 Apr 2022 11:39:19 -0600
Importance: Normal

Richard,
Fantastic, that's great to hear. Thanks for your reply, see you guys this afternoon!
Michael
On Thu, Mar 31, 2022 at 3:24 PM Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:
Dear Michael:

I agree with you that the proposed quarry would be very damaging to the area and to our air and water quality.
I fully support the draft ordinance and will be a yes vote when it comes up next week.

Thanks for your support.

Sincerely,

Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Michael Shannon <michaelshannon2011@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, March 31, 2022 3:16 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Mayor Wilson and Council Members,
Please help us stop the proposed Tree Farm mine in Parley's Canyon! The second I heard about this proposed

mine several months ago, I was horrified. One reason is because I personally recreate regularly during all
seasons in the mid-canyon area where the mine would be and I know how filled the area is with wildlife, and
only a stones throw from Salt Lake City. Just like the rest of our canyons, Parley's provides a quick escape into
nature for Salt Lake County residents. It is no less important to protect than Millcreek Canyon and Big and
Little Cottonwood Canyons. In fact, it is a much closer haven than those canyons further south for much of
Salt Lake County's population. A new 600 acre mine in Parley's Canyon makes absolutely no sense from so
many different angles.
Wildlife is already struggling to deal with the massive amount of traffic on I-80 in the canyon. We've all seen
the dead moose and deer along the roadside. There are moose everywhere in that part of the canyon and they
are already struggling to deal with human impacts. There really should be another wildlife bridge lower in the
canyon near where the proposed mine would be, but that's another subject. The gravel pit that already exists
lower in the canyon emits a massive dust cloud on windy days, which are numerous, only adding to our air
quality problems. Who knows what's in that dust? A new mine will only add to the problems with dust, traffic,
pollution, noise and habitat destruction.
I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County
Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones to
prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or
concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand, gravel
and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone." I greatly
applaud the proposed revision of the ordinance and your willingness to stand up for wildlife, the open land and
views so valued by your constituents, reduce pollution, and help save this fragile and unique area from further
industrialization. We're all counting on your help! I don't know how else we can do it. Thank you very much
for your time and attention and for helping us to protect the future of the Wasatch Range.
Michael Shannon
25-year Sugarhouse resident and business owner
Sincerely,
Michael Shannon
1252 E. Roosevelt Ave.
Salt Lake City, UT 84105

