From: Lizzy Abel <lizzy.abel@yahoo.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: Thank You For Taking This Important Step In Protecting The Wasatch Mountains.
Date: Thu, 07 Apr 2022 20:48:44 -0600
Importance: Normal

Hi Richard,
Thank you for your response. I have followed you in the news and appreciate the work you do on our county council in many
areas, this among them. It is so important! Sincerely, Liz Abel
On Thursday, April 7, 2022, 11:15:44 AM MDT, Richard Snelgrove <rsnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:

Hi Liz:

Thanks for your support. It is the involved citizen that makes our country work. Please know that I am firmly opposed to the
quarry up Parleys Canyon and was happy to make the motion to pass the ordinance that will ban it. The air quality, water
quality and aesthetic problems with this proposal are numerous. In addition, there is no shortage of limestone and places to
mine it. Therefore, I believe it is in the best interests of the good people of Salt Lake County to adopt the ordinance and keep
our air and water clean.

Thanks again,

Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Liz Abel <lizzy.abel@yahoo.com>
Sent: Wednesday, April 6, 2022 9:08 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Thank You For Taking This Important Step In Protecting The Wasatch Mountains.

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear SLCo Mayor and Council,
Thank you for recognizing our beautiful Wasatch Mountains are worth more standing intact than tearing them down for private
interests. I hope you continue to recognize they are something we should work to protect vs. destroy. Thank you for this great
initial step at preserving our beautiful mountain range for all residents. I also agree with everything written below. Sincerely, Liz
Abel
Thank you for taking this important step in protecting the Wasatch Mountains. With gondolas, road widening projects, mines,
transportation projects, fuels build up, unprecedented drought, growth and recreation pressures - there is much more that
needs done to protect the Wasatch. The Wasatch deserves protection.
Fortunately, between the Mountain Accord and the recently adopted Wasatch Canyons General Plan, there are a lot of
community vetted actions that we need the leadership of Salt Lake County to implement. We need robust and dynamic policy

to protect our watersheds and public lands. We need inclusive and comprehensive recreation plans. We need integrated
transportation solutions that help all users and visitors to our canyons to leave their cars at home so that our wild and beautiful
canyons are not converted into parking lots and transportation contraptions.
We look forward to working with you to do better in stewarding and protecting the Wasatch Mountains in Salt Lake County, for
the benefit of current and future generations, improving our quality of life and finding that sweet spot, where man and nature
exist in harmony and symbiosis with one another.
Thank You,
Sincerely,
Liz Abel
530 S. 400 E. #2201
Salt Lake City, UT 84111

