FILED
Evan S. Strassberg (#8279)
Steven J. Joffee (#13258)
MICHAEL BEST & FRIEDRICH, LLP
2750 E. Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 560
Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121
801-833-0477
esstrassberg@michaelbest.com
sjoffee@michaelbest.com
Counsel for Richards Family Partnership

JANUARY 25 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

BEFORE THE BOARD OF OIL, GAS, AND
MININGDEPARTMENT OF NATURAL
RESOURCES STATE OF UTAH
In the Matter of:
Denial of Notice of Intention to Commence
Small Mining Operations, Tree Farm LLC,
Silver Mine, S/035/0053, Task ID# 10588,
Salt Lake County, Utah

RICHARDS FAMILY
PARTNERSHIP’S PETITION TO
INTERVENE
Docket No. 2022-002
Cause No. S/035/0053

Request for Agency Action

Pursuant to Utah Administrative Code§ R641-103-100, Richards Family Partnership
(“RFP”), by and through its undersigned counsel of record, submits this Petition to Intervene.
RFP seeks to intervene for the purposes of (i) supporting the December 7, 2021 denial by the
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining ("Division") of the Notice of Intention to Commence Small
Mining Operations, Tree Farm LLC, Silver Mine, S/035/0053, Task ID# 10588, Salt Lake
County, Utah, filed by Tree Farm LLC, (ii) and opposing Tree Farm LLC's Request for Agency
Action and any commencement of mining operations by Tree Farm LLC under a Notice of
Intention to Commence Small Mining Operations. For the reasons explained below, RFP's legal
interests will be substantially affected by the formal adjudicative proceedings in this matter,
1

and the interests of justice and the orderly and prompt conduct of the adjudicative proceedings
will not be materially impaired by allowing RFP to intervene. This Petition is supported by the
Declaration of Susan Trapp in Support of Richards Family Limited Partnership’s Petition to
Intervene ("Trapp Declaration"), attached as Exhibit A.
STATEMENT OF FACTS
This matter arises from a Notice of Intention to Commence Small Mining Operations (the
“Small Mine NOI”) filed by Tree Farm, LLC (“Tree Farm”) on or about November 12, 2021,
Tree Farm LLC (“Tree Farm”). See Docket No. 1. Tree Farm also simultaneously submitted to
the Division a Notice of Intention to Commence Large Mining Operations (“Large Mine NOI”).
On December 7, 2021, the Division denied Tree Farm's Small Mine NOI, reasoning that the
“contemporaneous submittal of [the Small Mine NOI and the Large Mine NOI] indicates Tree
Farm LLC's long-term intent is to commence operations for a large mine," and that in "the
interest of administrative efficiency ... [the Division] will tum all focus and attention to the
expedient review and processing of Tree Farm LLC's Large Mine NOI.” Tree Farm filed a
Request for Agency Action (the “RFAA”), seeking a declaratory ruling from the Board of Oil,
Gas, and Mining ("Board") regarding the completeness of Tree Farm's Small Mine NOI and the
sufficiency of its proposed reclamation surety in order to commence operations under its
Small Mine NOI.
RFP is the record owner of approximately 660 acres of land east of—and either directly
adjacent to or very near—the Tree Farm property at issue (the “RFP Property”). See Trapp Decl.
at ¶ 6. Each of RFP’s partners is ultimately owned and controlled by members of the Richards
family, and the RFP Property has been owned by members of the Richards family (or entities
owned and controlled by Richards family members) for more than a century. See id. ¶ 15.
2

ARGUMENT FOR INTERVENTION
RFP should be allowed to intervene in this proceeding if its “legal interests may be
substantially affected by the formal adjudicative proceedings, and the interests of justice
and the orderly and prompt conduct of the adjudicative proceedings will not be materially
impaired by allowing the intervention.” Utah Admin. Code R641-103-100. RFP can easily
satisfy this standard and its petition to intervene should therefore be granted.
A.

RFP’s Legal Interests May be Substantially Affected by These Proceedings.
The legal interests of RFP in this matter are clearly demonstrated simply by the fact

that it owns more than 660 acres directly adjacent to the land on which the mining operations
at issue will be conducted. Any mining operations on the Tree Farm Property will
substantially impact RFP’s and its owners’ use and enjoyment of the RFP Property. This
impact will be felt in myriad ways, including, without limitation: (1) adverse impacts to the
health, safety, and general welfare of its owners posed by existing and the new proposed
mining operations in Parleys Canyon, including fugitive dust emanating from those
operations; (2) significant increases in the use (and a fundamental change in the nature of
the use) of access roads leading to and from the RFP Property and the Tree Farm Property;
(3) noise pollution that will inevitably result from the proposed mining operations; (4)
substantial impacts on water supply and quality resulting from the proposed mining
operations; and (5) potential impacts on property value resulting from an adjacent property
owner operating what will inevitably become a large-scale mining operation. See Trapp
Decl. at ¶15.
Moreover, RFP has a right to participate in the public review and comment process
3

provided under the Utah Mined Land Reclamation Act (Utah Code Ann. § 40- 8-1, et seq.)
for the Division's review of Large Mine NOIs before any proposed mining operations
commence. It is clear that Tree Farm's intention is to undertake a large mining operation but
to commence mining operations before completing the regulatory and public review
required for large mining operations by filing a Small Mine NOI within the footprint of its
Large Mine NOI. Tree Farm seeks to skirt the statutory and regulatory processes for review
and approval of large mining operations. RFP is entitled to intervene in this matter and
assert its legal interests in ensuring that the mandated regulatory and public review process
under the Utah Mined Land Reclamation Act is followed and that RFP—as an adjoining
property owner with substantial interests at stake—has a right to be heard and participate in
the relevant proceedings.
For the foregoing reasons, and those articulated in more detail in both the Division’s
Response in Opposition to Petitioner’s Request for Agency Action and in Millcreek’s
Motion to Intervene, RFP believes the Division properly denied the Small Mine NOI, and
requests that said denial be upheld.
B.

The Interests of Justice and the Orderly and Prompt Conduct of the
Adjudicative Proceedings will not be Materially Impaired by Allowing RFP to
Intervene.
Allowing RFP's intervention is in the interest of justice because: (a) it will ensure

that the owner of land directly adjacent to the subject property will have an opportunity to
be heard and to participate in these proceedings; and (b) will not materially impair the
orderly and prompt conduct of the adjudicative proceedings in this matter. RFP
understands that Tree Farm, the Division, and Proposed Intervenor City of Millcreek have
4

all agreed to continue the hearing set for January 26, 2022 to February 23, 2022, and to set a
briefing schedule that will allow the parties to address all material issues in dispute prior to
that date. RFP further understands that the stipulated motion was granted by the Board.
Thus, allowing RFP to intervene will in no way delay or otherwise interfere with the orderly
and prompt completion of proceedings in this matter.
ARGUMENT IN SUPPORT OF THE DENIAL OF THE SMALL MINE NOI
RFP joins in and incorporates by reference the arguments in support of the denial of the
Small Mine NOI asserted by both the Division and Millcreek City. RFP is particularly
concerned that Tree Farm's proposed small mining operation is, in reality, the beginning of
Tree Farm's proposed large mining operation and that Tree Farm may be seeking to
circumvent the review and approval process for a large mining operation. RFP has a
decided and obvious interest in ensuring that the detailed regulatory review and opportunity
for public review and comment required of large mining operations occur before any
mining operations can commence. The Division’s denial of the Small mine NOI should
therefore be sustained, and Tree Farm should not be allowed to commence mining
operations unless and until it has completed the thorough review and approval process
required for its Large Mine NOI.
CONCLUSION AND REQUEST FOR RELIEF
For the reasons set forth above, RFP respectfully requests: (a) that this Petition to
Intervene be granted; (b) that the Board consider RFP’s arguments set forth herein in
support of the Division's denial of Tree Farm's Small Mine NOI; (c) and that the Board
sustain the Division's denial of Tree Farm's Small Mine NOI; and (d) that the Board not
5

allow commencement of mining operations under the Small Mine NOI.
Dated: January 25, 2022
MICHAEL BEST & FRIEDRICH, LLP
/s/ Evan S. Strassberg
Evan S. Strassberg (8279)
Steven J. Joffee (13258)
2750 E. Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 560
Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121
(801) 833-0477
Counsel for Richards Family Partnership

6

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
On this 25th day of January 2022, the undersigned caused the foregoing PETITION
TO INTERVENE to be filed and served accordingly:
Filed, by email and mail, to:
Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Attn: Julie Ann Carter
PO Box 145801
Salt Lake City, UT 84114
juliecarter@utah.gov
Secretary for the Board of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Served, by email or mail, to:
Stephen E.W. Hale
Daniel A. Jensen
Justin P. Matkin
Kassidy J. Wallin
Parr Brown Gee & Loveless, P.C.
101 S. 200 E., Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
shale@parrbrown.com
djensen@parrbrown.com
jmatkin@parrbrown.com
kwalling@parrbrown.com
Attorneys for Tree Farm LLC
Haley Sousa
Assistant Attorney General
Utah Attorney General's Office,
Natural Resources Division
1594 W. North Temple #300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
hsousa@agutah.gov
Attorney for Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining

Michael E. Begley
Assistant Attorney General
Utah Attorney General's Office,
Natural Resources Division
1594 W. North Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
mbegley@agutah.gov
Attorney for the Utah Board of Oil, Gas and Mining
United States of America
clo Forest Service
857 W South Jordan Pkwy
South Jordan, UT 84095
United States of America
clo BLM 440 W 200 S # 500
Salt Lake City, UT 84101
Rulon Harper
6085 S Tolcate Woods Ln.
Holladay, UT 84121
Immediately Adjacent Landowners
Millcreek City
c/o H. Michael Keller
Tanner J. Bean #17128
FABIAN VAN COTT
215 South State Street, Suite 1200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
rnkeller@fabianvancott.com
tbean@fabianvancott.com
Salt Lake County
clo Scott Baird, Director Public Works
2001 S State Street, #N3-600
Salt Lake City, UT 84190-3050
scottbaird@slco.org

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
clo Lupita McClenning, Planning and Development, Director
clo Greg Baptist, Stormwater Inspection Supervisor
2001 S State, #N 3-600
Salt Lake City, UT 84190
lmcclenning@msd.utah.gov
gbaptist@msd.utah.gov
Other Known Interested Parties

/s/ Evan S. Strassberg
Evan S. Strassberg

(;+,%,7$

Evan S. Strassberg (#8279)
Steven J. Joffee (#13258)
MICHAEL BEST & FRIEDRICH, LLP
2750 E. Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 560
Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121
801-833-0477
esstrassberg@michaelbest.com
sjoffee@michaelbest.com
Counsel for Richards Family Partnership

BEFORE THE BOARD OF OIL, GAS, AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES STATE OF UTAH

In the Matter of:
Denial of Notice of Intention to
Commence Small Mining
Operations, Tree Farm LLC,
Silver Mine, S/035/0053, Task
ID# 10588,
Salt Lake County, Utah
Request for Agency Action

DECLARATION OF SUSAN TRAPP IN
SUPPORT OF RICHARDS FAMILY
PARTNERSHIP’S (1) MOTION TO FILE
PETITION TO INTERVENE OUT OF
TIME, AND (2) PETITION TO
INTERVENE
Docket No. 2022-002
Cause No. S/035/0053

I, Susan Trapp, being of lawful age, hereby swear and state as follows:
1.

I am over 21 years of age.

2.

I have personal knowledge of the facts stated herein.

3.

I reside in Salt Lake County, Utah.

4.

I am a partner in the Sally R. Parkinson Investment Company, which is one of six

partners in the Richards Family Partnership (“RFP”).
5.

I have acted as the manager of RFP since approximately 2009 with the consent of

all other partners.

6.

RFP is the record owner of five parcels of land located in unincorporated Salt

Lake County (the “RFP Property”) that are adjacent to or near the property owned by Tree Farm,
LLC (“the Tree Farm Property”). The RFP Property consists of approximately 660 acres. RFP
also owns substantial water shares.
7.

I first learned that Tree Farm was looking to commence mining operations on the

Tree Farm Property after reading an article in the Salt Lake Tribune in late November 2021.
8.

Shortly thereafter RFP began seeking out legal counsel with whom RFP could

consult regarding its legal rights in relation to Tree Farm’s proposed mining operations.
Because I had no contacts with any attorneys who I understood had any experience in the
relevant areas of law, I began obtaining referrals and started making some calls.
9.

Each time I found a lawyer and/or law firm that I believed might be qualified to

assist RFP, the firm would eventually come back and indicate it had conflicts of interest and
therefore could not represent RFP or simply did not get back to me. Most firms took a week or
more to respond. This happened several times and therefore significantly delayed our ability to
hire counsel.
10.

I received the Request for Agency Action on or about the 30th of December.

11.

Neither I nor, to the best of my knowledge, anyone else associated with RFP, was

notified of the NOI for the Large Mining Operation at or near the time it was filed.
12.

I received the Notice of Hearing on or about January 7, 2022. At that time I did

not notice the portion of the document stating objections must be filed by the 10th of January. In
any event, however, RFP was continuing its efforts to obtain legal counsel.
13.

RFP was ultimately able to retain Michael Best & Friedrich as our legal counsel

on or about January 21, 2022—after the deadline for filing objections.

14.

It is important to me and to RFP that RFP be allowed to intervene in this

proceeding so that its interests—and the interests of its partners—in this matter can be heard and
considered.
15.

The RFP Property has been held by members of the Richards family (or entities

owned and controlled by family members) for more than 100 years. Any mining operations on
the Tree Farm Property will substantially impact RFP’s and its’ owners’ use and enjoyment
of the RFP Property. This impact will be felt by RFP in myriad ways, including, as mere
examples: (1) adverse impacts to the health, safety, and general welfare of its owners posed
by existing and the new proposed mining operations in Parleys Canyon, including fugitive
dust emanating from those operations; (2) significant increases in the use (and a
fundamental change in the nature of the use) of access roads leading to and from the RFP
Property and the Tree Farm Property; (3) noise pollution that will inevitably result from the
proposed mining operations; (4) substantial impacts on water supply and quality resulting
from the proposed mining operations; and (5) potential impacts on property value resulting
from an adjacent property owner operating what will inevitably become a large-scale mining
operation.
16.

Additionally, RFP is concerned that Tree Farm is looking to commence mining

operations before its Large Mine NOI is fully considered and vetted.
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of Utah that the foregoing is
true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Executed this 25th day of January, 2022

/s/ Susan Trapp

