From: "Richard Snelgrove" <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
To: "Richard Snelgrove" <rhsnelgrove@gmail.com>
Subject: FW: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Wed, 06 Apr 2022 16:19:04 -0600
Importance: Normal

Hi Richard:
Do you know this guy. I can respond for you if you like.
Sam
From: John Myers <jw_myers@comcast.net>
Sent: Friday, April 1, 2022 7:02 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Richard,
Did you happen to go to Highland High School? Perhaps Clayton Jr High?
There was a Richard Snelgrove that was a fellow classmate. I graduated in 1974.
Thank you for your support with this issue.
Our family has a cabin in Mt Aire.
We built it in 1965.
John Myers
On Apr 1, 2022, at 3:59 PM, Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:

Dear John:
I agree with you that the proposed quarry would be very damaging to the area and to our air and water
quality. I fully support the draft ordinance and will be a yes vote when it comes up next week.
Thanks for your support.
Sincerely,
Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: John Myers <jw_myers@comcast.net>
Sent: Friday, April 1, 2022 2:35 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,

Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air quality and
sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the economic future of our state. To
this end, I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County
Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine;
quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for
the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons
Overlay Zone."
Further industrialization of the Wasatch’s land and water resources is inconsistent with the values of our communities. It
threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak
loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.

Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
John Myers
13304 S Lake Forest Dr
Draper, UT 84020

John Myers DDS
(435) 513-2551
jw_myers@comcast.net

