From: Jenny Wilson <JWilson@slco.org>
To: The McGuire Family <jasonmcguire@comcast.net>
Cc: Lisa Hartman <LHartman@slco.org>
Subject: Re: Proposed Parley's Canyon Quarry
Date: Wed, 01 Dec 2021 16:58:28 -0700
Importance: Normal

Hi Jason and Angela,
Thank you for reaching out! As you’re well aware, this is a complex issue that my team is working through. I’m copying
Lisa Hartman, Associate Deputy Mayor. She works with Deputy Mayor Catherine Kanter on this issue because it falls in
their portfolio of regional operations, but also because Lisa serves as the city liaison for me to South Jordan City.
Please let me know if you have any questions. Hope you’re doing well and having a great start to your holiday season.
Best,
Mayor Wilson
signature_38471

Mayor Jenny Wilson
Salt Lake County
2001 South State Street
Salt Lake City, UT 84114
(385) 468-7000

From: The McGuire Family <jasonmcguire@comcast.net>
Date: Monday, November 29, 2021 at 8:08 PM
To: Jenny Wilson <JWilson@slco.org>
Subject: Proposed Parley's Canyon Quarry

Dear Mayor Wilson,
Thank you for all that you do for our County. I serve with Mayor Ramsey on the South Jordan
City Council and she said this was the best way to contact you. My wife and I are contacting you
regarding the proposed Parley’s Canyon Quarry. We have family property and cabins in the
adjacent Mt. Aire Canyon. The Mt. Aire Canyon is a very narrow canyon with a one lane road
and historic cabins that in some places scale the mountain side. The area is prone to
avalanches. Our property in particular has the remains of a historic cabin that was destroyed by
an avalanche many years ago. Each winter the canyon has at least one small avalanche. We
have grave concerns with how the blasting from the proposed mine will affect the avalanche
conditions in our canyon. We understand from the Salt Lake Tribune’s article that you also are
concerned with the impacts that such a business would have to Parley’s canyon. Per the Salt
Lake Tribune’s November 24th article, it states that “The mine would require a conditional use
permit from the county and would have to be reviewed for compliance with the county’s
Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zone ordinance.”
We are trying to understand how the county will be involved in the process of the potential
approval of the Tree Farm LLC. permit. Will the permit be issued solely by the Department

responsible for compliance? Will Tree Farm LLC. have to get your approval as mayor? Does
Tree Farm LLC. have the right to request a variance? Will the permit request go before the
County Council? Will there be opportunities for public input? Please help us to understand the
political process involved with this issue.
We really appreciate all that you do!
Sincerely,
Jason and Angela McGuire
South Jordan City, UT
(801) 703-7801

