From: "Lisa Hartman" <LHartman@slco.org>
To: "Dina Blaes" <DBlaes@slco.org>
Subject: FW: Statement on Vote by Salt Lake County Council
Date: Wed, 06 Apr 2022 15:08:20 -0600
Importance: Normal
Attachments: Ltr._to_SL_Co._Council.pdf
Inline-Images: image001.png

From: Jordan Carroll <JCarroll@slco.org>
Date: Wednesday, April 6, 2022 at 9:05 AM
To: Lisa Hartman <LHartman@slco.org>
Subject: FW: Statement on Vote by Salt Lake County Council
FYI
Jordan Carroll
Communications Manager | Office of Regional Development
(she/her)

Cell: 385-479-2086
Twitter: @jordanec & @slcoregionaldev
Instagram: Salt Lake County Regional Development

SALT LAKE

COUNTY
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT

From: Brian Maffly <bmaffly@sltrib.com>
Sent: Wednesday, April 6, 2022 8:57 AM
To: Jordan Carroll <JCarroll@slco.org>
Subject: Fwd: Statement on Vote by Salt Lake County Council
Hi Jordan, here is the information the Tree Farm publicist sent me yesterday and a link to HB288. I am hoping to speak to
someone with the county about the issues raised in the attached letter from Brent Bateman. I would like to get the
correspondence between Batemen and county officials regarding the zoning ordinance change barring new mines in the
FCOZ. I specifically want to learn if a "critical infrastructure materials protection area," as described in HB288, has been
established in Salt Lake County. Thank you for your help,
Brian

---------- Forwarded message --------From: Matt Lusty <matt@honeycommunications.com>
Date: Tue, Apr 5, 2022 at 5:01 PM
Subject: Statement on Vote by Salt Lake County Council
To: Brian Maffly <bmaffly@sltrib.com>
The actions taken by the Salt Lake City Council today demonstrate disrespect for private property rights. This ordinance is blatantly
contrary to Utah Code 17-41-402(6). This law prohibits adopting or initiating proceedings to adopt any ordinance that would prohibit

Critical Infrastructure Materials operations. Thus, it is illegal. We believe that it is not the County’s conscious intention to disobey state
law.
More alarming, the attorney for Tree Farm LLC, Brent Bateman, has sought numerous times to engage with Salt Lake County. With the
exception of dismissive emails from one county attorney, he was largely ignored.
Sadly, This ordinance will affect the property rights of not only the potential mine owner but of many others.
In the past decade, Utah’s population has grown at the fastest rate in the country, adding more than half a million residents in the last
ten years. With annual per-capita aggregate demand of around 10 tons, the rapidly growing Salt Lake City area will require 258 million
tons of various aggregates over the next 20 years. Failing to develop new, local aggregate sources will have serious consequences on
the environment and economy. Already-soaring housing and infrastructure costs will increase. Quality of life will diminish.
Additionally, this process has sadly shed a light on another serious issue: the attempt by privileged individuals in our state to bend a
legal process to their will, leaving lawful businesses without recourse.
To protect the rights of Utahns, we are considering our next steps. These steps may include direct public advocacy efforts to citizens
and elected officials to address this problem openly and honestly.
More information about this mine can be found on: i80southquarry.com. Additionally, the letter shared by Tree Farm’s attorney with the
Salt Lake County Council can be found as an attachment to this email.

-Partner, Honey Communications
801-783-8750 | matt@honeycommunications.com

-Brian Maffly
Public lands reporter
O: 801.257.8713
C: 801.573.2382

Support the Tribune | Subscribe today!

