FILED

February 21 2022

DIVISION OF OIL, GAS, AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
STATE OF UTAH
Attn: Julie Carter, juliecarter@utah.gov

FEBRUARY 22 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

RE: Comment Letter regarding Tree Farm’s Notice of Intent, for:
- February Agenda, Briefing Session on Wed, February 23, 2022
- February Agenda, Board Hearing on Wed, February 23, 2022
Dear Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining Board Members,
I am writing this letter to register my opposition to both the small 20-acre Tree Farm gravel pit and
the large 634-acre gravel pit proposed for lower Parleys Canyon. I would also like to register my
support for DOGM’s denial of the small mine operation NOI. My perspective that Tree Farm’s true
intent is to excavate a large mine in Parleys Canyon. And my belief is that Tree Farm’s filing is
inaccurate and incomplete.
I have reviewed the 344-page Notice of Intent (NOI)1, and I am concerned about the information that
has been disclosed as well as the information that is missing. Of primary concern, the NOI does not
disclose in much detail the approximately 100 homes and cabins that are located near the proposed
open pit mine site.2 My home, shared by my wife and young children, is located less than 1/2 mile
from the boundary of the proposed quarry. Several neighbors’ homes are located less than 1/4 mile
away, or less than two city blocks; almost shouting distance. Yet neither my family nor my
neighbors were notified of this mine proposal. Tree Farm LLC cannot be excused for not knowing
about the Mount Aire community – after all, the proprietor sold his cabin that he once owned there.
The NOI fails to explain how homes might be impacted by a mine site in such close proximity.
Not just impacted in terms of property value loss – which I imagine would be significant for every
homeowner – but in actual threats to homeowners’ well-being.
This mine poses a direct danger to my family, my home, and the surrounding community. Tree
Farm’s proposal states that heavy machinery and explosive agents will be used in operations.3
Mining activity is planned for the backside of the same bluff that our home is built on. Might our
quality of life be affected? Absolutely. To provide context, the existing Harper quarry is located
further away, approx 2.25 miles from our home. Yet even at that distance, we can occasionally hear
the dull thump of explosives inside our home. How might explosives detonated as close as 1400
feet away from a neighborhood sound and feel to residents? At two blocks away, will blasting
simply shake walls and windows, or worse? Studies published by the US Bureau of Mines document
damage to structures located up to four miles away from mine sites4. By my calculations, every
1

https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/M0350054/2021/Incoming/11122021a.pdf

2

Page 59: “...it is surrounded by National Forest System lands on the south and west and private land on the north.”
Page 195: AECOM report mentions Mount Air water well supplying water to approximately 103 residents.
Page 200-205: A water well report for Mount Aire community, with a column labeled “Residential”.

3

NOI, page 7: “Tree Farm will conduct common practices typical with crushed and broken limestone mining and
quarrying. These practices include drilling, blasting, and use of dozers…”

4

"The duration of vibrations increases with moving from the source. This phenomenon is particularly displayed in
saturated soils and areas where soil deposit is underlain by rock. For such soil conditions, Siskind and Stagg (2000)
obtained interesting results in measurement of ground vibrations at distances 1.6-6.4 km [1-4 mi] from quarry
blasting.” … … “Blasting can produce the most extensive ground and structure vibrations, and dynamic effects range
from intact structures to considerable structural damage… results of research studies accomplished by the U.S.
Bureau of Mines (USBM) and others on vibrations from blasting and their effects on low-rise houses…"

home in Mount Aire sits within a 1.5 mile radius of mine boundaries. The dangers are myriad.
Rumbling of heavy machinery combined with frequent blasts could loosen rocks and boulders
above homes, endangering lives. Detonations in rock could cause liquefaction beneath homes,5
resulting in structural damage or collapse. In winter, vibrations could trigger avalanches that
wreck homes, decimate yards and trails, and bury the only road that serves Mount Aire canyon,
posing lethal risks to homeowners. To my knowledge, no risk assessment of any of the
surrounding structures has been performed.
Consider air quality. The NOI mentions silica in the rock formations that will be mined6. Silica
particles are known to cause silicosis, lung cancer, renal cancer, kidney disease, and other
incurable ailments7. The company intends to extract limestone – over a billion tons of it. As much
as 20% of the material extracted will end up as “waste material [which] can consist of very fine
limestone powder.”8 Crushed limestone is rated a Category 1A Carcinogen, Category 2 Specific
Organ Toxicity, Category 2 Skin Corrosion, and Category 2A Eye Irritant. 9 This mine is located
three minutes from a large population in the Salt Lake Valley. In my opinion, the fact that a
344-page report glosses over such considerations is inexcusable. Airborne byproducts from the
mine could endanger not only the Mount Aire community, but thousands of families in Millcreek,
Canyon Rim, Sugarhouse, Olympus Cove, the Country Club area, and perhaps further afield.
Consider the prevailing winds: As East Bench residents can attest, Parleys Canyon frequently
experiences strong winds, typically blowing down the canyon. WindAlert shows that lower Parleys
Canyon experiences wind gusts above 25 miles per hour nearly 40% of days of the year.10 Why
is 25 mph relevant? Utah Administrative Code R307-309-5(3) dictates that mine owners need not

https://scholarsmine.mst.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2969&context=icchge, pg 2
5

“Ground vibrations can produce direct vibration effects on structures and trigger resonant structural vibrations
of adjacent and remote structures. However, under certain circumstances such as a combination of non-cohesive
soil deposits and ground vibrations, elastic waves can be the cause of plastic soil deformations, e.g.
liquefaction, densification and soil settlements.”
https://scholarsmine.mst.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2969&context=icchge, pg 2 (emphasis mine)

6

NOI, page 16 (emphasis mine): “The Gartra Grit Member is composed of whitish, pinkish white sandstone that is
massive, coarse grained, and silica cemented". Page 8: “Occasional rock types… such as mudstone, siltstone,
and sandstone will be encountered.” Page 6: “Interbeds of sandstone, siltstone, sandy limestone, and silty
limestone are mapped throughout the formation.” Sand, sandstone, silt, siltstone, and mudstone are all composed
primarily of silcates. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siltstone, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sandstone,
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silt, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sand, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mudstone,

7

“Breathing in very small (‘respirable’) crystalline silica particles causes multiple diseases, including silicosis, an
incurable lung disease that leads to disability and death. Respirable crystalline silica also causes lung cancer, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and kidney disease. Exposure to respirable crystalline silica is related to the
development of autoimmune disorders and cardiovascular impairment.”
https://www.osha.gov/silica-crystalline/health-effects
8

NOI, page 8: “It is estimated that mine and processing waste (not including overburden), will average around 20%
by weight. This waste material can consist of a very fine limestone powder generated from breakdown due to
handling and crushing.”

9

“Limestone may be subjected to various natural or mechanical forces that produce small particles (dust) which may
contain respirable crystalline silica (particles less than 10 micrometers in aerodynamic diameter). Repeated inhalation
of respirable crystalline silica (quartz) may cause lung cancer according to IARC and NTP; ACGIH states that it is a
suspected cause of cancer.“
https://www.lehighhanson.com/docs/default-source/safety-data-sheets/sds-limestone.pdf
10
Average % of days that experience wind gusts over 40kmh (25mph) at Parleys Exit 132 during daylight hours:
Jan: 15% of days
Apr: 60% of days
Jul: 39% of days
Oct: 42% of days
Feb: 35% of days
May: 69% of days
Aug: 38% of days
Nov: 28% of days
Mar: 44% of days
Jun: 44% of days
Sep: 32% of day
Dec: 27% of days
Average over 12 months: 39.4% of days
https://www.windalert.com/spot/1878617

meet dust Opacity regulations when winds exceed 25mph.11 Why would such an exemption
even exist? Because apparently, lawmakers and the mining industry recognize that dust is too hard
to contain in high winds… …yet high winds are common at the proposed mine site. Despite
whatever fugitive dust controls the company proposes, surrounding areas will be exposed to
airborne dust. Parleys Canyon, like a funnel, will direct dust into homes, stores, schoolyards, parks,
and golf courses near Parleys Canyon. In fact, dust is already an ongoing problem; Canyon Rim
homeowners have filed numerous complaints about dust proportedy originating at the existing
Harper Company Mine.12 That mine operates only 11.2 acres, whereas Tree Farm LLC intends to
operate a massive 634 acres.
Consider reclamation: Tree Farm LLC has disclosed that it does not intend to perform any land
reclamation activities on disturbed acreage until all mining operations cease in approximately
100 years13. In other words, the company’s stated intent is to leave hundreds of acres of land
barren, with neither protective vegetation nor topsoil, exposed to frequent canyon winds, for the next
100 years. Imagine a fine layer of silica-laced dust resting on your fireplace mantle; settling upon
your garden; entering your high school football player’s lungs. Then imagine such conditions existing
for the next century. Imagine such conditions possibly existing for thousands of years, because Tree
Farm has disclosed that it will never revegitate over one-third of the mine site. 14 Never.
How can one company be allowed to engage in activities that pose such significant risks to so many
thousands of families? How can the justification be ”It's allowed because it’s on their own property…”
when the company is unable to keep it on their own property?
Consider fresh water sources: Tree Farm LLC’s stated intent is to extract limestone15 -- up to two
million tons per year16 or 1.1 billion tons over the lifetime of the mine.17 18 Limestone is a highly
porous formation, and cavities in limestone form freshwater aquifers. The nearby Mount Aire
community is dependent upon wells and artesian springs sourced from these aquifers -- their only
source of culinary water as well as their only source of emergency fire suppression water for fire
hydrants. Tree Farm essentially acknowledges a risk of dewatering, in it’s speculation that
groundwater movement will “likely” be “limited” or “retarded” in the area.19 Who is at fault if Mount

11

NOI ppg 28-29: “...wind plays a major role in fugitive dust management. Opacity in R307-309-5(1) shall not apply
when the wind speed exceeds 25 miles per hour.” (In other words, dust opacity is allowed to exceed 20% offsite so
long as the operator sprays water before or every hour during the wind event, or lays down chemicals, etc.)

12

Fruhwirth, J. “Harper Companies’ Dust Storms Parley’s Canyon: Canyon Rim Residents Organize to End Pollution
from Gravel Pit.” City Weekly, Aug 17 2010. https://www.cityweekly.net/utah/Content?oid=2147959

13

NOI, page 13 (emphases mine): “The size and nature of the site will not allow for concurrent reclamation,
though as stated above, any opportunity to reclaim unused portions of the site will be implemented. As proposed, all
acreage to be disturbed will be covered in topsoil and re-vegetated when mining permanently ceases at the site.”
Page 8 repeats “The pit slope benches will be reclaimed at the end of the mine life.” When is the end of the mine
life? Page 8 indicates “~100 years.”
14
NOI, page 8, Table 106.3-1 “Approximate Disturbed Area and Timeframe” shows that of 634 acres, a “Bench Face
area” of “223 acres” “will not be reclaimed” because of the steep slope
15

NOI, page 8: “The limestone of the Jurassic Twin Creeks formation is the target material for extraction.”

16
NOI, page 8: “Tree Farm is estimating an initial 500,000 tons of material (base rock) on an annual basis for the first
three to five years of operation and increasing to more than 2,000,000 tons per year.

17

NOI, table on page 18 indicates that “1.1 billion bulk tons” of limestone will be extracted.

18

The claims on page 8 do not match claims on page 18. 1.1billion tons divided by 100 years is 11 million tons per
year, not 2 million tons. A 450% difference. Yet another example of errors in the NOI.
19
NOI, page 198 (emphasis mine): “The siltstones and mudstones associated with the Upper and Mahogany
Menbers of the Ankareh Formation likely limit or retard groundwater flow within the study area. Fractures within the

Aire residents cease to have water flowing to their homes? What of their rights? The limestone
formations in Parleys also contribute to the water flows depended upon by the Salt Lake Valley. Tree
Farm LLC admits that at least one such aquifer exists in their study area, and it feeds Parleys
Creek20 (which then passes through Parleys Historic Nature Park, the Country Club Golf Course,
Sugarhouse Park, etc.)
Approximately 60% of SL Valley’s water comes from our Wasatch watersheds, and 20% comes from
Parleys Canyon.21 However, I could not find any details about how or where the mine intends to
obtain its water for fugitive dust control. So unless Tree Farm plans to truck in potentially millions
of gallons of water a year, it seems that whatever precious water supply they appropriate from the
canyon will cease to be available to SL Valley residents. The NOI does not disclose how the
company intends to secure the vast amounts of water it would require to curb its +100 year fugitive
dust problem. How can they claim that they’ll be responsible neighbors, yet fail to outline such a
critical aspect of their operation?
It would be short-sighted and irresponsible for our government to allow a mining company to
settle atop our watershed, minutes from two important freshwater reservoirs,22 and then blast
away and pulverize our limestone formations, risking permanent damage to aquifers, dewatered
springs and wells, and contaminated water flows that are so vital to surrounding residents,
other water rights owners, and Salt Lake Valley.
Consider surface hydrology: In my opinion, the company is not being truthful in its disclosures
about water features in the area. One specific example is the mine’s proximity to water flows. The
company’s “Hydrology Evaluation Report” states that nearby Parleys Creek is protected by culverts,
and “no open channel flow remains in the bottom of the Canyon near the project area.”23 This is
false. The truth is this: Directly in front of the mine site and less than 400 feet away from mine
boundaries, Parleys Creek exits the culverts, and flows freely in its riverbed, shaded by scrub
oak, openly exposed to contamination from mine dust and debris.24 If the company can miss a
detail as simple as this, how can its other “reports” within the NOI be trusted to be accurate? In
fairness, the company admits that no hydrology field work was conducted.25 What other shortcuts

Ankareh Formation maybe partially sealed by collapse of factures by overburden pressures, filled with silt and clay
particles from weathering process, and potentially not substantially hydraulicly connected.”
20
NOI, page 16 (emphasis mine): “...the shallow aquifer feeding Parleys Creek from the study area…
Pg 18-20 mentions artisanal flows, aquifers, blasting and residue effects on groundwater, and states that the
company anticipates that any groundwater will sit below 5300 ft elevation.
21
“Declaration of Laura Briefer in Support of Salt Lake City’s Petition to Intervene“,
https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/bbooks/2022/01_Jan/Docket/2022-002_S0350053_TreeFarm/2022-002_20220125.8_SaltLak
eCitysPetitionToIntervene.pdf

22

Per Google Maps, Mountain Dell reservoir is 1.5 miles away, and Little Dell reservoir is 3 miles away from the
proposed mine boundaries.

23

NOI, page 195 (emphasis mine): "Parleys Creek is the main hydrologic feature in the canyon and now flows in a
culvert beneath Interstate 80. No open channel flow remains in the bottom of the Canyon near the project
area."
24
Parleys Creek exits the culvert directly across the highway from the mine site, and flows approximately 1/4 mile
down the canyon, completely exposed to airborne contaminants from mining activity. The creek bed is visible from the
highway. Maps on the US Geological Society’s website also clearly display this open creek bed, and the Interactive
Map reveals that lengths sit less than 400 feet from the mine site. Map: Parleys Creek near proposed mine site.
25

NOI, pg 16: “AECOM was tasked to complete a hydrology study of the site which did not include a field
investigation component.”

did they take? Can one trust their subsequent claim that not a single spring or seep exists in a
634-acre limestone formation?26
Consider the project site; the visual blight that not only our residents would have to tolerate for at
least the next hundred years, but the festering wound that millions of tourists annually would pass
by on their way to Utah’s resorts. Indeed, “Utah, a Pretty, Great State.” How utterly embarrassing.
Consider the sheer scope of the project: The proprietor is on record saying that the mine would be
less than 20 acres – yet he references the 300-page Large Mine Operation filing 27 (revealing the
company’s true intent, in my opinion). Likewise, he is on record saying that said mine would not be
easy to see from the highway.28 I believe that these statements were a calculated attempt to
obscure the intended extent of the project from public scrutiny. In reality, as described by the 300
page document he mentioned, Tree Farm LLC has requested permission to dig a crater into the
hillside, commencing mere feet from the south side of I-80, penetrating approximately 1.5
miles into the south face of Parleys Canyon; spanning 634 acres; obliterating several
peaks and ridges, carving barren headwalls that tower nearly a half-mile above the
highway.29 How can this site be “hidden” in any sense?30 Over 60,000 vehicles drive past the site
every day.31
In terms of acreage, Tree Farm’s mine would be nearly one-third the size of Bingham Copper
Mine.32 More mature cities in other states would not tolerate such a shortsighted, embarrassing,
irresponsible eyesore on their doorstep.
These are just a few of many concerns. Other issues worth consideration, briefly:
●

26

Significantly increased truck traffic, as well as stray rocks and gravel on the highway,
pose a material risk to the 60,000+ vehicles that navigate I-80 past the mine site on a daily

NOI, pg 16: “The absence of springs and seeps within the study area…”

27

“[T]he owner of Tree Farm LLC, Jesse Lassley, said they’ve carefully outlined plans in the over 300-page
proposal to mitigate impacts on the environment.” KSL TV News, Nov 29, 2021 (emphasis mine)
https://ksltv.com/477767/proposed-mine-in-parleys-canyon-draws-concern-for-homeowners-environment/

28

"Lassely said the quarry would be in an area that would make it very hard to see from the highway…." KSL TV
News, Nov 29, 2021.
https://ksltv.com/477767/proposed-mine-in-parleys-canyon-draws-concern-for-homeowners-environment/

29
NOI, page 7-8: "Tree Farm will disturb a maximum area of 634 acres on the property." Page 8 indicates that the
mine will operate for "~100 years." Page 17 states that the targeted limestone formation is "approximately 2600 feet
thick" Page 18 states that 1.1 billion tons of material will be extracted. Page 39 shows a topo map overlaid by mine
boundaries, which extend along Interstate 80 and encompass numerous ridgelines and peaks. Page 8 states: “It is
assumed that all 634 acres will be disturbed at one time during the life of the mine.” Page 42 shows a final stage
elevation map -- the low end of the quarry flanks I-80, and the open pit penetrates into the south side of Parleys
Canyon – clearly visible from the highway. The mine “floor” sits at 5300 ft elevation, while it’s head walls rise to over
7500 ft elevation, over 2,200 feet vertically. Measurements on Google Maps reveal that this massive crater will stretch
approximately 1.5miles to the southwest, torn deep into the mountainside. Indeed, this company intends to excavate
an entire man-made canyon in our foothills, a mere three minutes away from Salt Lake Valley.

30

For a visual depiction, see the “Before / After” Artist’s rendition of the mine site on www.saveparleys.org, based on
maps and drawings from the NOI. (For a sense of scale, notice the overpass in the foreground.)

31

https://www.parkrecord.com/news/park-city-salt-lake-city-commute-could-change-in-the-coming-decades-as-transport
ation-officials-consider-overhauling-mouth-of-parleys-canyon/
32
“The [Bingham Copper] mine has been in production since 1906, and has resulted in the creation of a pit over 0.75
miles (1,210 m) deep, 2.5 miles (4 km) wide, and covering 1,900 acres (3.0 sq mi; 7.7 km2).”
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bingham_Canyon_Mine

●

●

●

basis. The NOI states confidently that it won’t adversely impact traffic or safety, but I see no
justification for such a statement.33
Elevated fire dangers34 imposed upon not only the Mount Aire community but the entire
sub-range which extends to Millcreek Canyon, Summit Park, Lambs Canyon, and beyond; a
potential for wildfire to be sparked by any one of the hundreds35 36 of industrial 18-wheelers
driving off-highway during dry months. Parleys Canyon is currently classified as an “extreme”
wildfire risk in SL County. 37 Why does the NOI not discuss this risk nor the company’s
mitigation plans? Loss of life cannot be mitigated.
Affected wildlife. The company acknowledges38 the presence of herds of wintering elk,
moose, black bear, mountain lion, and other big game, as well as species like the golden
eagle39 and the endangered Canada lynx40. While the company provides a fairly extensive list
of animals, it’s silent about many of our other vulnerable friends: the porcupines, the red foxes,
the tiny saw-whet owls, shy long-tailed weasels, flying squirrels, pollinating bees, skunks,
grouse, hummingbirds, the susceptible Bonneville cutthroat trout41, and many other species
that live in the area, all of which stand to be adversely affected by the company’s blasts and
strip mining activity.
Impact to popular recreation destinations nearby, including hiking trails on the northern hip
of Grandeur Peak (from beneath which the company intends to extract rock), the Wasatch
Trail, Parleys Historic Nature Park, The Iron Curtain rock climbing wall, Parleys Trail, as well
as many bike paths, nature trails, and campgrounds in Millcreek Canyon.

33

NOI, pg 28 “The off/on ramps and UDOT frontage road provide access to the site from both the east
and west bound lanes of I-80 without adversely impacting the traffic and safety in the area.”

34
Historical Mount Aire community is served by a single road commencing at the same location as the proposed truck
route. While the community has fire hydrants, homes generally employ Defensible Space, and residents are keenly
aware of fire danger, no homeowner could have anticipated the extreme risk posed by hundreds of industrial trucks
driving past the mouth of the canyon, off-highway. A wildfire sparked by just one truck could devastate the entire area,
and pose lethal risk to Mount Aire and surrounding communities.
35

“Lassley’s plan is to produce 500,000 tons of limestone a year for the first 3 to 5 years of operation, then ramp up to
2 million tons or more, the document said. To move that much limestone would require 137 truck trips a day at 40
tons per load.”
Salt Lake Tribune, Nov 24, 2021. https://www.sltrib.com/news/environment/2021/11/24/major-limestone-quarry/
36

NOI, page 28: “Tree Farm will access the site via the Mount Aire exit and the UDOT frontage road along the south
side of I-80”
In terms of frequency, that’s one 18-wheeler or dump truck rumbling out to the mine or back every 3.5 minutes, 16
hours a day.
37

“Wildfire Risk in Salt Lake County” map, page 17
https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/planning--transportation/wasatch-canyons/wasatch-canyons-general-plan_opt
imized_js.pdf

38
NOI, page 24-26: “The project area overlaps approximately 629.1 acres of wildlife habitat… Due to the large size
of the project and the fairly narrow width of Parleys Canyon, habitat connectivity would be somewhat disrupted for
terrestrial species moving east or west, up or down the canyon.”
39
NOI, page 23: “Figures 10 and 11 show two potential golden eagle nests on cliffs in the project boundary.” (The NOI
posits that when the nests are destroyed by mining activities, any affected golden eagles ought to be able to find
another place to nest.)
40
NOI, page 20: “The large home range, elusive nature, and wide-ranging movement patterns of the Canada lynx
make surveying for this species difficult. Therefore, no surveys were completed for this species. Based on the poor
quality of the habitat present and the distance from known lynx populations, it is assumed that this species would
rarely utilize the project area.”
41

“The Bonneville Cutthroat Trout (BCT) is listed as a “Tier I Conservation Species” by the State of Utah, as a
“Sensitive Species” by the US Forest Service, as a “Rangewide Imperiled (Type 2) Species” by the Bureau of Land
Management, and as a “Vulnerable Species” by the State of Idaho.”
https://westernnativetrout.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/BonnevilleCT_WesternNativeTroutStatusReport_Updated
January-2018.pdf

How can one business venture present so much risk to so many people, with so little upside and so
little accountability? Citizens are outraged42, and rightly so. This open pit mine does not serve
Utahn’s interests. It is bad for our environment. It poses immediate threats as well as serious,
prolonged dangers to the community 100 years from now. Fortunately, this is not hard to remedy –
not yet. Right now, at this moment, we have an opportunity to do what is right: Do not allow this
gravel pit to be built at our doorstep.
Regards,
Justin Wilde
PO Box 520002
SLC UT, 84152
40+ year resident of SLC
17-yr homeowner in Mount Aire
Husband and father

42

https://www.change.org/p/spencer-j-cox-protect-parleys-canyon-and-the-wasatch-front

