FILED
JANUARY 21 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

MOUNTAIR COMMUNITY
Fred Stromness
6857 East Maple Fork Way #60
Salt Lake County, Utah
801 381-0877

RECEIVED

JAN 2 1 2021
ON OF OIL, GAS & MINING

January 15, 2022
Delivered email and USPS
State of Utah
Utah Department of Natural Resources
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
Attn: Ms. Julie Carter, Secretary of the Board of Oil, Gas and Mining (jcarter@utah.gov)
1594 West North Temple, Suite 1210
Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
Re: Tree Farm, LLC's Parleys Canyon Quarry / January 26, 2022 Board Meeting
Dear Ms. Carter,
I am a property owner in the Mountair Community, and my family has owned and occupied
property there since the initial settling of the canyon by Parley P. Pratt more than 120 years
ago. I have reviewed Tree Farm, LLC's, November 12, 2021 Form MR-LMO submission to The
Utah Department of Natural Resources (with its attachments). I offer the following comments
for your consideration:
I note that Tree Farm's Form MR-LMO submission covers many topics including limited and
cursory discussion of the detrimental impacts the mine will cause to Parleys Canyon ecology.
Even without addressing all the relevant topics, the submission contains enough information to
reasonably conclude that the proposed mining operation would ensure that every piece and
aspect of the Parleys Canyon ecosystem would either be disrupted or destroyed. The natural
balance and beauty that currently exists in and for miles around the location of the proposed
mine would be destroyed. It is not possible for Tree Farm, LLC to prevent or remediate all the
interconnected impacts this mine would cause to the environment and the residents of Salt
Lake County.
Over the course of the life of the quarry, the air pollution, fugitive dust, and specifically silica
dust (a known carcinogen) caused by this quarry would, in-and-of-itself, contribute to the
premature deaths of thousands of Salt Lake County residents. Surely, an Environmental Impact
Statement must be undertaken and completed so the risks to the environment and the hazards
to the residents of Salt Lake County are clearly understood and considered.
To me, it is illogical to approve a quarry in a location that will add so much air pollution to our
often-times terrible Salt Lake Valley air, which is already among the worst air in the US.
Recognizing the value of preserving and cleaning our environment, major environmental
initiatives are pursued, such as switching to electric vehicles and moving away from fossil fuels.
1

For the same reasons new quarries need be developed in locations away from population
centers that also have water availability to control the fugitive dust. Products any quarry
produces can be shipped into the valley via rail car. The need for Salt Lake County residents to
be able to breath clean air far out-weighs the added expense of shipping.
Every operation in a quarry creates fugitive dust. The currently operating smaller quarry in
Parleys Canyon (at Exit 131 off 1-80) has been cited for not adequately controlling the fugitive
dust it creates. Typically, excavated rock and soils are dampened with sprayed water to reduce
air-born dust particles. The State of Utah needs to know if Tree Farm LLC can acquire enough
water with the associated water rights to control the proposed quarry's fugitive dust on an
ongoing basis. Utah finds itself in an extended drought that many climatologists have stated is
the new normal for coming years. Not only does dust control consume a great deal of water,
but the future supply of the needed water is not certain. The State of Utah should carefully
consider whether Tree Farm's Parley's Canyon quarry would be the highest and best use of the
limited water resources available in that area.
Absent from Tree Farm's submission is any investigation or determination of impact to Salt Lake
County residents and historic Mountair Canyon located directly adjacent to the proposed mine
location. It is improper for the mine's impact to Salt Lake County communities and the
Mountair residential community not to be studied and determined prior to approval of the
proposed mine. The submission does not address the detriments to the residents and
properties of Salt Lake County and specifically the Mountair Community which is directly
adjoining the proposed mine site. It contains inadequate information indicating that those
detriments could in any way be prevented or remediated. Furthermore, Tree Farm submitted
its application with no prior notice to the impacted communities.
Of particular importance, Tree Farm, LLC has not studied the likelihood that quarry blasting will
endanger lives in Mountair Canyon. Seismic shocks caused by blasting will be readily
transmitted through the bedrock stratigraphy. Mountair Canyon's steep rocky slopes contain
loose boulders. The seismic shocks will likely trigger multiple and ongoing rockslides onto the
canyon road, its residents and their homes. The occurrence of snow slides or avalanches would
also be exacerbated by blasting at the adjacent proposed mine. In the winter, this poses an
additional extreme danger to the residents of Mountair Canyon as they occupy their homes and
traverse the canyon road. I emphasize, lives lost cannot be remediated.
In addition to the environmental destruction, air pollution, noise and hazards of drilling and
blasting, the State of Utah must also consider the impacts of heavy equipment used for
loading and transportation of quarry products on the residents of Salt Lake County and the
Mountair Community. Many gravel-hauling trucks will constantly traverse the entrance to
Mountair Canyon where pedestrians, including children, are present. The big trucks passing
through this confined area pose an extreme danger to persons and property of the Mountair
Community, particularly in wintertime. This traffic is also hazardous on 1-80. The proposed
mining operation traffic would have a detrimental impact on thousands of commuters and
HECEIVED
other traffic on the heavily used Interstate 80 in Parley's Canyon.

JAN 21 2022
2
OIV OF OIL, GAS & MINING

The beauty of the canyon and its high value to the residents of the State of Utah, as well as to
tourists, for recreation and enjoyment, even if just passing through, must also be considered.
In conclusion, the damage to the ecology of Parleys Canyon, Mountair Canyon, and the Salt
Lake Valley is of high importance. The limited studies thus far provided only scratch the surface
of the detrimental impacts. What has not been studied or determined is the HEALTH and
SAFETY as well as the property rights and recreational interests of the residents of Salt Lake
County and the Mountair Community. Specifically, what risks and damages will Salt Lake County
residents be faced with both immediately and over decades of mine operations if Tree Farm,
LLC's mine is approved. I feel certain that the State of Utah will agree that the impact to the
ecology of Parley's Canyon including Mountair Canyon and the SAFETY and well-being of Salt
Lake County residents need be studied and determined prior to considering the possibility of
approval.
I ask the State of Utah: How can the proposed Tree Farm, LLC Parleys Canyon Quarry be
considered without or prior to the completion of an extensive and thorough environmental and
citizen impact statement?
After an extensive and thorough environmental impact statement is completed so that the
impacts of the Parleys Canyon Tree Farm quarry are better known, I expect and anticipate the
State of Utah and its Department of Natural Resources will carefully consider and weigh all of
the detrimental impacts the quarry will cause, will provide for public notice and comment, and
based upon the severity of the many detrimental impacts caused by the proposed quarry, not
grant Tree Farm, LLC approval to open its proposed Parleys Canyon Quarry.

Fred Stromness
Resident Mountair Community
cc:

State of Utah Governor, Spencer Cox, Salt Lake County Mayor, Jenny Wilson, Millcreek
City Mayor, Jeff Silvestrini, Salt Lake County Planning

RECEIVED

IAN 21 ?,0?'(!
ON OF OIL, GAS

3

& MINING

