FILED
January 24, 2022

JANUARY 24 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

Utah Department of Natural Resources
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
Attn: Julie Carter, Secretary for the Board of Oil, Gas and Mining
1594 W North Temple, Suite 1210
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
RE: Opposition of Proposed Mining Operations in Parley’s Canyon – Docket No. 2022-002 Cause No.
S/035/0053 Request for Agency Action of Tree Farm, LLC
Ms. Carter,
I write to you to convey my opposition of Tree Farm, LLC’s proposal to commence mining operations on its
land located in Parley’s Canyon.
I am part of the Richards Family Partnership which owns approximately 660 acres located East of and
abutting Tree Farm’s land on which the mining operation is intended. As well, I own a recreational home
within the Mount Aire canyon community East of the Tree Farm, LLC property. This historic canyon and
surrounding land was founded in the 1800's by my great great grandfather and has grown to be a serene
community of approximately 150 recreational homes as well as many full-time residences. This peaceful,
residential community is our own little piece of heaven as it is secluded and quiet. I am frustrated that a
project of this magnitude, which would create such destruction to the natural landscape and wildlife as well
as impact the use and enjoyment of our property so greatly, is being considered in Parley’s Canyon and so
near our mountain community.
I am concerned that the noise of mining will create an atmosphere in which our family will no longer want to
gather at our property as we have for generations. I anticipate the dust from the mine will coat everything
on our property as I have seen evidence of in other areas near mines. I am concerned how the mine might
impact our Mount Aire drinking water as well as our beautiful spring creek water. The safety of Mount Aire
canyon and its residents is of concern as blasting operations for the mining process will shake our homes and
very likely create rock and snow slides from our steep canyon walls as I have found in my research it is likely
to do. I am concerned about the access to our property as Tree Farm, LLC’s plans will alter the entire access
to Mount Aire canyon and the Richards Family Partnership property. As well, I am concerned for the
economic impact on our property value, and the destruction to the picturesque mountains in the area.
I am not only concerned with how the proposed mining operation, or any other destructive use of the land,
will impact our property and our residential community but also how it will impact the Salt Lake Valley. I
have seen pictures and video of how the dust created by another Parley’s Canyon mine has affected
Millcreek City and the Canyon Rim area at the mouth of Parley’s Canyon. There is an open stream near the
proposed mine which flows to the Salt Lake Valley for drinking water which will very likely be impacted with
mining operations. The wildlife in the area will be driven out of its natural habitat and cause disruption
to canyon ecology.

As precedent, I concede there is currently a mining operation on the North side of I-80 in Parley’s Canyon.
However, according to Tree Farm’s Notice of Intent for Large Mining Operations on the South side of I-80,
the proposed mine would be vastly larger than the existing operation in Parley’s Canyon. As well, the mine
on the North side of Parley’s Canyon is not adjacent to residential communities while the proposed mine is.
In conclusion, I am in full support of the Division of Oil, Gas and Mining’s denial of Tree Farm, LLC’s Notice of
Intent to Commence Small Mining Operations as many concerned parties have come to conclude that Tree
Farm, LLC’s ultimate goal is to have a large mining operation in Parley’s Canyon.
I am deeply concerned about the impact to my canyon home and to my family’s future use and ability to
enjoy our serene canyon and property as we have for generations.
I appreciate your time.
Regards,

Jodi Harker

