From: Katie Pappas <kpappas56@yahoo.com>
To: "Mr. Richard Snelgrove" <rsnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Mon, 04 Apr 2022 21:47:11 -0600
Importance: Normal

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
I have lived in Salt Lake City for 57 years. Our canyons are literally the life blood of Salt Lake City. They
provide us with our water and almost every imaginable type of outdoor recreation.
They are the reason so many people want to live here. They attract visitors from all over the world to enjoy their
spectacular beauty. They provide habitat for birds and wildlife and are home to an amazing collection of plants.
The wildflowers are unsurpassed. And then there's the geology... The very idea of compromising this amazing
asset to our community, to line the pockets of one company is outrageous. The deforestation, ecosystem damage,
slide risk and dust clouds that will result will have lasting impacts on the ecosystem and human health. To this
end, I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County
Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing;
mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an
operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the
Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone."
Further industrialization of the Wasatch’s land and water resources is inconsistent with the values of our
communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this proposed revision of the
ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
Katie Pappas
424 K St
Salt Lake City, UT 84103

