From: "Richard Snelgrove" <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
To: "Bill Hanson" <william.f.hanson@gmail.com>
Subject: RE: Proposed mining in Parley's Canyon
Date: Wed, 06 Apr 2022 15:47:24 -0600
Importance: Normal

Hi Bill:
Thanks for your interest. It is the involved citizen that makes our country work. Please know that I am firmly opposed to
the quarry up Parleys Canyon and was happy to make the motion to pass the ordinance that will ban it. The air quality,
water quality and aesthetic problems with this proposal are numerous. In addition, there is no shortage of limestone and
places to mine it. Therefore, I believe it is in the best interests of the good people of Salt Lake County to adopt the
ordinance and keep our air and water clean.
Thanks again,
Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Bill Hanson <william.f.hanson@gmail.com>
Sent: Monday, April 4, 2022 12:09 PM
To: Laurie L. Stringham <LLStringham@slco.org>; Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>; Jim Bradley
<JBradley@slco.org>; Dea H. Theodore <DHTheodore@slco.org>
Subject: Proposed mining in Parley's Canyon
My name is William (Bill) F. Hanson. I've lived in Salt Lake County all my life, and have traveled up and down Parleys
Canyon countless times. I personally know Jim Bradley, although I haven't seen him for some time, and Dea Theordore, a
neighbor of mine. I think both can vouch that I'm not unreasonable. I've hiked all over the Wasatch Range, and, even
though I'm an old guy, still do so. The Wasatch Range is a great treasure that should not be damaged by a mine in Parley's
Canyon. These are some of the many reasons why.
1. Parley's Canyon is the primary means by which eastbound and westbound traffic enters and leaves the Salt Lake Valley.
As we all know, it's a lovely green in the Spring and Summer, yellow and red in the Fall, and white in the Winter. It's a
beautiful canyon that we all love and enjoy and an impressive way to enter and exit the Salt Lake Valley. A huge stripmine scar on its south side would irretrievably damage its beauty, all because some guy wants to make lots of money at
the expense of those of us who treasure it and live in the Salt Lake Valley.
2. As we who live in the Salt Lake Valley know, Winter inversions plague our air quality. And, even in other seasons, the
Salt Lake Valley's air quality can rapidly deteriorate. A huge gravel strip mine in Parley's Canyon, together with its heavy
machinery and gravel-hauling trucks, would, in my view, drastically exacerbate the Valley's air quality, particularly in the
Winter months, as strong winds typically blow down the Canyon. Will the owner of the mine compensate those who
suffer from the resulting dirty air and pay for the measures to clean it?
3. Parley's Canyon is, as a major east-west interstate traffic artery, well-traveled. As we know, it sometimes suffers from
heavily-congested heavy traffic, particularly during rush-hour times and when a vehicular accident slows traffic to a crawl.
A fleet of heavy gravel trucks, which will be needed to haul gravel up and down the canyon from the proposed mine, will
vastly exacerbate traffic congestion in the canyon. Moreover, those trucks will, unless meticulously sealed, will spew
gravel over other vehicles on the road. Will the owner of the proposed mine willingly cover damage to other vehicles
resulting from loose gravel? And, the constant use of heavy trucks will cause the Parley's Canyon road to deteriorate

much sooner than it otherwise would. Will the owner of the proposed mine pay additional highway taxes commensurate
with that deterioration? .
4. We've all seen what has happened to what used to be the Point of the Mountain. Heavy gravel mining there has
leveled the western part of it to the extent that there's no point left. Moreover, on windy days, gravel dust from the mine
can cover both the Interstate, vehicles traveling on it, and nearby buildings and residences. Will it again become
environmentally friendly? Will those who mined the gravel revegetate and restore what's left? We certainly need to
address these concerns, which would be exacerbated in the narrow confines of Parley's Canyon.
These are some of my concerns. In summary, the quality of life of those who live in the Salt Lake Valley and who love and
care for its lovely Wasatch Mountains, including Parley's Canyon, should preempt any money-making scheme that will
benefit only a few at the expense of us all. Thanks for reading this tome and your willingness to address my concerns.

