From: Brandon Patterson <pattersonbh@gmail.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: Thank You For Taking This Important Step In Protecting The Wasatch Mountains.
Date: Wed, 06 Apr 2022 15:03:10 -0600
Importance: Normal

Mr Snelgrove,
Thanks for your note and efforts. I am very appreciative of your stewardship of the Wasatch.
Brandon
Sent via mobile
On Apr 6, 2022, at 2:41 PM, Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:

Hi Brandon:
Thanks for your support. It is the involved citizen that makes our country work. Please know that I am firmly opposed
to the quarry up Parleys Canyon and was pleased to make the motion to pass the ordinance that will ban it. The air
quality, water quality and aesthetic problems with this proposal are numerous. In addition, there is no shortage of
limestone and places to mine it. Therefore, I believe it is in the best interests of the good people of Salt Lake County to
adopt the ordinance and keep our air and water clean.
Thanks again,
Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Brandon Patterson <pattersonbh@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, April 6, 2022 11:14 AM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Thank You For Taking This Important Step In Protecting The Wasatch Mountains.
Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear SLCo Mayor and Council,
Thank you for taking this important step in protecting the Wasatch Mountains. With gondolas, road widening projects,
mines, transportation projects, fuels build up, unprecedented drought, growth and recreation pressures - there is much
more that needs done to protect the Wasatch. The Wasatch deserves protection.
Fortunately, between the Mountain Accord and the recently adopted Wasatch Canyons General Plan, there are a lot of
community vetted actions that we need the leadership of Salt Lake County to implement. We need robust and dynamic
policy to protect our watersheds and public lands. We need inclusive and comprehensive recreation plans. We need
integrated transportation solutions that help all users and visitors to our canyons to leave their cars at home so that our
wild and beautiful canyons are not converted into parking lots and transportation contraptions.

We look forward to working with you to do better in stewarding and protecting the Wasatch Mountains in Salt Lake
County, for the benefit of current and future generations, improving our quality of life and finding that sweet spot,
where man and nature exist in harmony and symbiosis with one another.
Thank You,
Sincerely,
Brandon Patterson
1921 E Downington Ave
SLC, UT 84108

