From: Mariah Espinal <MEspinal@slco.org>
To: Undisclosed recipients:;
Subject: News Clips
Date: Mon, 04 Apr 2022 14:51:05 -0600
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png

SALT LAKE

Srl
-a-COUNTY
News Clips
April 1-3

Outdoor gear makers gave up their boycott of Utah while gaining nothing, George Pyle writes (The Salt
Lake Tribune, George Pyle)
Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson, among others, argued that the outdoor gear companies didn’t get the
changes they wanted by leaving, so maybe the could get them by returning and being involved.
Salt Lake City and County need to protect their watersheds from fire danger
(The Salt Lake Tribune, Phil Lyman)
Both Salt Lake City Mayor Mendenhall and Salt Lake County Mayor Wilson enthusiastically welcomed OR
back to Salt Lake, touting the city and county’s environmental stewardship.
Salt Lake County receives grant to serve Afghan refugees ( KSL-AM, Samantha Herrera)
Open Society Foundations awarded $150,000 to Salt Lake County Mayor’s Office for New Americans. The grant
will help the office’s Operation Afghan Refugee Support, which provides resources to Afghan refugees in the
county.
'Not the best-case scenario': Early melt offers 'bleak' water outlook in Salt Lake County (KSL, Carter
Williams)
That means state and local governments, such as the Salt Lake County Council, may have to initiate water
conservation goals again this spring and summer to avoid serious issues. Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson
said county agencies were able to reduce consumption by 13% last year and it's shaping up that the county will
have to cut back again based on the current snowpack and forecast data.
Salt Lake County launches Water Summit to combat drought (KSL, Jed Boal)
Salt Lake County launched a Water Summit Tuesday to focus on critical issues facing all Utahns during the
drought. The four-part series will be held during the County Council work sessions this spring. County Mayor
Jenny Wilson is encouraging everyone to do their part because there’s no one solution to our water shortage.
'We're in a world of hurt': Drought leads to tough restrictions in Weber-Ogden basin (KSL, Amy Joi
O’Donoghue)
While Salt Lake County is not a water provider, it did set a goal of shaving its own water use by 5% last year and
actually achieved a 13% countywide reduction in consumption, with 75% coming from parks and recreation,
according to Lisa Hartman, the associate deputy mayor.

Jury determines West Valley man guilty of murder, but could have been defending himself ( KSL, Emily
Ashcraft)
Deputy Salt Lake County district attorney Shane Cohen said in his closing arguments that Hogue was not a
victim, he was the aggressor.
Winner of Post Malone's auctioned autographed guitar announced (CBS, Kayla Winn)
Camp Hope Utah is a nonprofit that helps children who have been impacted by domestic violence and trauma.
The camp is funded completely by the Salt Lake County District Attorney’s office."At the end of the day their
efforts, Post's efforts, our effort is to just help those children,” Gill said.
Kennecott Utah Copper agrees labour deal (Mining Weekly, Staff Member)
The United Steelworkers (USW) has ratified a new, five-year labour agreement with Kennecott Utah Copper,
covering more than 1 300 hourly workers at the Rio Tinto subsidiary's mine in Salt Lake county.
CBS-KUTV 2 /Helping Afghan Refugees
VIDEO 1
https://slco.to/1GVup3
VIDEO 2
https://slco.to/Ka3nPN
KSL-AM /Marijuana Decriminalization
AUDIO
https://slco.to/lDhaNG
KSTU-Fox 13 /UTA employee steals from tax payers
VIDEO 1
https://slco.to/SJfCVF
VIDEO 2
https://slco.to/3Zvb4w
KUER 90.1 /Clark Planetarium
AUDIO
https://slco.to/Ublw2z
KSTU-Fox 13 /New Fire Chief
VIDEO
https://slco.to/toySmm

Mariah
martati Espinal
Espi,KAL

Constituent Affairs
Mayor’s Office
385-468-7000
mespinal@slco.org

