Andrew W. Smith
2385 E. Stringham Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109-1222
801-718-1509 Cell • awsmith4@comcast.net

March 4, 2022

Charles Williamson, PG
Stream Alternation Specialist
Utah Division of Water Rights
1594 West North Temple, Suite 220
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6300
RE:

Stream Channel Alteration No. 22-57-05SA
Smith Creek
Tree Farm, LLC, Jesse Lassley, Manager

Dear Mr. Williamson,
I am writing you to request the denial of the application for Stream Channel Alteration No. 22-5705SA, Smith Creek, (“Project”) by Tree Farm LLC and Jesse Lassley, Manager. This permit
application brings up many concerns and questions not reasonably covered or answered or not
addressed at all. This Project work would have negative impacts on the subject area based on the
following items.
This Project will cause an unreasonable and unnecessary harmful affect on the current recreational
uses and the natural stream environment; and endanger the area’s aquatic and other wildlife habitat.
This Project work is not needed and is extremely premature. Tree Farm’s application refers to its
larger and future proposed “mining operation on their property in the canyon”. This proposed mining
operation is not approved. Tree Farm needs a long list of permits, studies and approvals from first,
the Division of Oil, Gas and Mining, then the Division of Air Quality, UDOT, Public Works and
possibly other agencies. Before any mining operation begins, a conditional use permit (aka-business
license) from Salt Lake County is required, including bonding and surety agreements. It is a long
process and likely not to be approved at all. There is no need for a stream alteration, widening and
improving of any roads, stabilizing any slopes, or constructing a new parking area. There are no and
will not be, any mining operations and transporting of any mining materials at the subject area;
therefore, this Project is unreasonable and unnecessary.
This Project will impair and infringe on vested water rights, current adjacent property rights, and any
rights-of-way and easements, like from UDOT and adjacent property owners. Tree Farm does not
own the subject area land and to my knowledge does not hold any rights-of-way or easements to the
subject area land in order to make such Project improvements or alterations. Until these vested water
and property rights are studied and determined, until an assessment if sufficient water rights are
available for this Project and for the longer view of the proposed mining operation are studied and
determined, the impacts of a stream alteration at this time cannot be determined and thus the
referenced Stream Channel Alteration application should be denied.

I have a vested interest in the subject area. Since 1960 my family has owned and enjoyed a cabin
property in Mount Aire Canyon. We have entered Mount Aire Canyon through the subject area for
over sixty years. I can speak first hand to the concerns and issues I state above. There is no need or
reason at this time to make such improvements or changes to the subject area at the base of the Mount
Aire Canyon. The big question is why is this Project coming before you at this time? Tree Farm is
only looking to their proposed mining operation further up the Grandeur Peak Canyon, not Mount
Aire Canyon, but Grandeur Peak Canyon. In order to access its property, they must cross through
Mount Aire Road and the subject area; a proposal clearly not approved.
Thank you for your time and consideration.

Andrew W. Smith
801-718-1509 cell
awsmith4@comcast.net

Cc:
Nicole Fresard, Senior Project Manager, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Brian Steed, Director, Department of Natural Resources
Scott Baird, Director, Salt Lake County Public Works and Municipal Services
Laura Briefer, Director, Salt Lake City Public Utilities

