From: Matt Halpin <mhalpin19@gmail.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Thu, 07 Apr 2022 15:18:04 -0600
Importance: Normal

Hi Councilman,
I just want to sincerely thank you for all that you’ve done to protect the Wasatch front. I know this mineral
extraction project in Parley’s Canyon generated a lot of public input and Im grateful that you were able to
represent the voice of many throughout SLC.
Protecting our beloved outdoor spaces will always be an uphill battle. The same goes for protecting our air
quality, water, and wildlife. But I hope you’re able to celebrate this win all the same.
If there’s any way I can help in this larger fight for the future of our state, I’d love to get involved.
Thanks again for representing us and making a difference.
Matt Halpin
On Thu, Mar 31, 2022 at 15:18 Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:
Dear Matt:

I agree with you that the proposed quarry would be very damaging to the area and to our air and water quality.
I fully support the draft ordinance and will be a yes vote when it comes up next week.

Thanks for your support.

Sincerely,

Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Matt Halpin <mhalpin19@gmail.com>
Sent: Thursday, March 31, 2022 2:15 PM

To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air quality
and sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the economic future of
our state. To this end, I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and
the Salt Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and
Canyon Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and
processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with
and as part of an operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone
and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone."
Further industrialization of the Wasatch’s land and water resources is inconsistent with the values of our
communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this proposed revision of the
ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
Matt Halpin
473 M Street
SLC, UT 84103

