Barton H. Kunz II (USB# 08827)
GOEBEL ANDERSON PC
405 South Main Street, Suite 200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Telephone: (801) 441-9393
bkunz@gapclaw.com
Attorneys for County Respondents
SEVENTH DISTRICT COURT – MONTICELLO DEPARTMENT
SAN JUAN COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH
NORTHERN MONTICELLO ALLIANCE,
LLC,

COUNTY’S CROSS-MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Petitioner,
vs.
SAN JUAN COUNTY COMMISSION et al.,
Respondents,
SUSTAINABLE POWER GROUP, LLC;
and LATIGO WIND PROJECT, LLC,

Case No. 170700006
Judge Lyle R. Anderson

Intervening Respondents.
Respondents San Juan County Commission and San Juan County (collectively
“County”), through counsel and under Utah Rules of Civil Procedure 7 and 56, hereby
cross-move for summary judgment against petitioner Northern Monticello Alliance,
LLC (“NMA”).
//
//

INTRODUCTION
This is the second time this matter has come before the Court for review. In its
first petition for review, NMA challenged an amended written decision issued by the
County upholding the county planning commission’s decision not revoke the conditional
use permit (CUP) for the Latigo Wind Park held by Sustainable Power Group, LLC
(“sPower”). The amended decision revised the County’s previous written decision that
had reversed and remanded the planning commission’s decision based on its
determination that sPower had not presented any evidence that it was meeting the
CUP’s requirements to mitigate light, sound, and noise impacts. After that decision
issued, sPower wrote to the County and asked it to reconsider its decision, explaining
that it had indeed submitted binders of evidence showing that it was mitigating the
impacts as the CUP required. sPower, however, did not copy the letter to NMA and the
County did not invite NMA to respond or otherwise inform it of the letter. The county
commission met in a closed meeting and determined it was mistaken about whether
sPower had presented mitigation evidence, and issued an amended written decision that
partially superseded its prior written decision and affirmed the planning commission’s
decision not to revoke the CUP.
The Court in NMA’s first challenge (“NMA I”) held that, while the County’s
decision affirming the planning commission’s decision not to revoke the CUP was
supported by substantial evidence, the County violated NMA’s procedural due process
rights when it revisited its decision without allowing it an opportunity to respond to

2

sPower’s letter. The Court remanded the case back to the county commission for action
consistent with its ruling.
On remand, the county commission noticed a hearing on sPower’s request for it
to reconsider its initial written decision and invited both sPower and NMA to submit
briefs. It held a hearing at which attorneys for each presented argument, and
subsequently issued an Amended Written Decision on Remand. The County again
reversed in part its initial written decision and instead affirmed the planning
commission’s decision not to revoke sPower’s CUP, finding that it was supported by
substantial evidence. Because it was no longer remanding the issue to the planning
commission, and finding no legal obligation to do so, the County also reversed its
instruction to the planning commission to allow NMA to comment at a new revocation
hearing.
NMA then filed this second petition for review, but essentially re-alleged the
claims it raised in NMA I.
RELIEF REQUESTED AND GROUNDS THEREFOR
The County seeks summary judgment on NMA’s petition for review. Whether
evaluated for arbitrariness and capriciousness or for illegality, the County’s decision
withstands scrutiny.
NMA argues that the County’s decision is arbitrary and capricious because
sPower allegedly failed to meet the CUP’s sound and light conditions, as well as what it
terms self-imposed conditions to purchase NMA’s properties or make mitigation
payments. But the Court already ruled in NMA I that the enforceable conditions are

3

those imposed by the County, not the so-called self-imposed conditions, and the
County’s decision affirming the planning commission’s decision not to revoke the CUP
was supported by substantial evidence. Thus, the law of the case doctrine warrants
leaving the Court’s determinations undisturbed. Even if the Court nonetheless decided
to address NMA’s assertions anew, NMA’s claims fail because the alleged self-imposed
conditions are not the CUP’s conditions, and there is substantial evidence in the record
supporting the County’s decision.
NMA contends that the County’s decision on remand is illegal. It asserts that the
county commission shouldn’t have been allowed to reconsider its initial written decision
and that the County should have instead remanded the dispute to the planning
commission. Again, this Court decided those issues in NMA I, and the law of the case
doctrine instructs against reconsidering them here. If the Court were inclined to reach
them, however, NMA had no statutory or constitutional right to be heard because the
protectable property interest at issue was sPower’s, not NMA’s.
STATEMENT OF UNDISPUTED MATERIAL FACTS
1.

The county planning commission issued the CUP in dispute for the Latigo

wind power project to sPower’s predecessor in interest, Wasatch Wind, at a 4 October
2012 meeting. (R0574-75, R855, R860-61.)
2.

At that meeting, Wasatch Wind made various representations about what

it voluntarily would do to address flicker, light, sound, and other impacts on the
surrounding area, including its efforts to purchase NMA’s property or make mitigation
payments to the property owners. (R0787-R0804, R0818-22.) It also submitted a

4

document setting forth proposed findings, conclusions, and conditions (“Summary of
Findings and Conclusions”) that set forth several representations made by Wasatch
Wind about how it intended to build the Latigo project and treat NMA. Wasatch Wind’s
attorney, Tom Ellison, referenced it at the hearing, describing “the second document
that I brought to the table, and it addresses, or I mean, this is a proposed set of
findings.” But the document was not adopted by the planning commission as embodying
conditions on the CUP. (R0570, R0795, R0818, R0820-22, R0831.)
3.

As amended by the planning commission, the following conditions were

added to the CUP:
[I]ncorporate as much flicker, light, sound[] mitigation as possible, and to
meet all industry standards of those challenges, . . . and reiterating that all
and any new land purchase lease deals be in writing for any contiguous
and affected landowners. . . . [A]ny mitigation and standards and
conditions of this CUP must be met by any and all project development
people, be they owners now or in the future, and all of these be met at the
time of building permit issuance.
(R0568, R057-71, R0855, R0860-61.)
4.

Following the planning commission’s grant of the CUP to Wasatch Wind,

sPower acquired the Latigo project. (R0028.)
5.

Sometime after that, upon receiving complaints, including from NMA, that

sPower was not complying with the CUP’s conditions, the county planning commission
met to consider whether to revoke the CUP. (R0087, R0568.) It received evidence and
testimony from sPower, including studies, information on thresholds, how they were
determined, and what neighboring lands were affected. (R0568, R0571, R0578-79.)

5

6.

sPower provided the county evidence of its mitigation efforts, including

the following related to flicker, light, and sound:
a.

Flicker
i.

sPower decided against turbines from Siemens and Vestas in

favor of a new turbine manufactured by GE that had a shorter hub height that reduced
the amount of flicker because it casts a smaller shadow. (R1606.)
ii.

In the expected scenario, none of the eleven receptors

sPower tested exceeded the baseline industry standard of flicker exposure not exceeding
thirty minutes a day for more than thirty hours a year. According to industry standards,
there is no flicker threshold to be met for undeveloped land like the NMA properties.
(R1607-08.)
b.

Light
i.

sPower worked with the FAA to reduce the number of

turbines required to have navigation lights from twenty-seven to fourteen. (R1608-09.)
ii.

sPower also developed a lighting plan for its substation and

operations building that eliminated lighting at night unless they are in use. Downward
facing lights are used wherever possible. (R1609.)

[intentionally left blank]

6

c.

Sound
i.

sPower decided against turbines from Siemens and Vestas in

favor of a new turbine manufactured by GE that runs quieter than the Vestas model.
(R1606.)
ii.

sPower conducted sound studies to confirm that, through its

placement of turbines and selection of a quieter turbine, the wind park met all sound
limits for existing residences and businesses. There is no industry sound standard for
vacant agricultural land, and a 2015 sound study based on the quieter GE turbines
sPower selected found that one NMA member’s parcel might experience noise higher
than 47 decibels, the accepted limit for residential property. (R1899-R1901.)
7.

NMA appealed the planning commission’s decision not to revoke the CUP,

asserting that the planning commission erred when it determined that sPower was
satisfactorily meeting the CUP’s conditions. (R0569-70, R1826.)
8.

The county commission, acting as the county’s land use appeal authority,

held a hearing on NMA’s appeal. It received briefing from the planning commission,
NMA, and sPower, and heard from both NMA and sPower at a hearing. (R0030, R0043123, R0321-566, R1629-825.)
9.

The County issued a written decision reversing and remanding the

planning commission’s decision that sPower had complied with the CUP’s requirement
that it mitigate flicker, light, and sound because the county commission said it had not
received any evidence of studies or mitigation beyond sPower’s bare representations.
(R0001, R0035-36.)

7

10.

sPower’s attorneys wrote to the county commission noting that, contrary

to its written decision, sPower had provided the county with relevant studies on sound,
light, and flicker, and requested that the county commission reconsider its decision.
(R0025-29.) The county commission then issued an “Amendment to Written Decision,”
wherein it acknowledged that it had issued its prior decision without considering the
mitigation evidence sPower had presented. The commission stated that it had since
reviewed sPower’s evidence after having its attention called to it, and had decided to
amend its decision to instead uphold the planning commission’s decision not to revoke
the CUP because sPower had satisfied the CUP’s condition to implement as much
flicker, sound, and light as much as possible according to industry standards. (R000203.)
11.

NMA petitioned for review of the amended decision to this Court in

Northern Monticello Alliance, LLC v. San Juan County Commission et al., case no.
160700001 (“NMA I”). It asserted that the county commission’s decision was arbitrary
and capricious because the sound exceeded 55 decibels on some NMA property, sPower
had not used dark sky technology, and sPower had not met self-imposed conditions
regarding ice throw, purchasing NMA properties, or making mitigation payments.
(NMA I, Am. Compl. ¶ 101(c).)
12.

While the Court held that it could not “find that the County’s decision was

unsupported by substantial evidence” and that every tribunal has inherent authority to
correct its mistakes (NMA I, Mem. of Decision on the Aug. 30, 2016 Hr’g at 6-7 (Sept. 9,
2016)), it nonetheless held that the County’s decision was illegal because it had deprived

8

NMA of due process when it considered sPower’s letter without giving NMA notice or an
opportunity to be heard. (Id. at 7-8.) The Court remanded the dispute to the county
commission to take action consistent with its order. (NMA I, Am. J. at 2 (Nov. 17,
2016).)
13.

On remand, the County asked for briefing on the issues raised by sPower’s

letter, which both sPower and NMA submitted. The County held a hearing on 3 January
2017, at which both sPower and NMA appeared and made arguments. The County also
limited sPower and NMA to the record as already constituted. (R1832, R1834.)
14.

The County issued an Amended Written Decision on Remand on 21

February 2017. In it, the County found that “sPower had, indeed, submitted extensive
documentation, including studies and reports, to the Planning Commission regarding its
efforts to mitigate light, sound and flicker,” and that, therefore, the County’s “statement
that sPower had offered nothing more than bare oral representations was, we now
recognize, erroneous.” (R1834.) In light of that evidence, the County decided that it
could not say that “the Planning Commission’s decision not to revoke the Latigo CUP
lacked substantial evidence.” The County held that it would not, “in light of the record
evidence,” “disturb the Planning Commission’s conclusions that sPower has and is
meeting the Latigo CUP’s conditions and its decision not to revoke the permit.” (R1835.)
Finally, the County reversed its remand instruction to allow NMA to address the
planning commission. It explained that, “upon rehearing and considering all the record
evidence,” it “no longer view[ed] such a remand as helpful because now its sole purpose
would be to allow NMA to comment, which [it] ha[d] determined is not a right that the

9

Planning Commission was obligated to recognize.” (R1835-R1836.) This suit followed.
(Docket.)
LEGAL STANDARDS
a.

Summary Judgment

Summary judgment is appropriate when the movant “shows that there is no
genuine dispute as to any material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” Utah R. Civ. P. 56(a). Where, as here, the nonmoving party bears the
burden of proof, the movant “may satisfy its burden on summary judgment by showing,
by reference to” materials in the record “that there is no genuine issue of material fact.”
Orvis v. Johnson, 2008 UT 2, ¶ 18, 177 P.3d 600 (citation omitted). “Upon such a
showing, whether or not supported by additional affirmative factual evidence, the
burden then shifts to the nonmoving party, who ‘may not rest upon the mere allegations
or denials in the pleadings,’ but ‘must set forth specific facts showing that there is a
genuine issue for trial.’” Id. (quoting and citing former Utah R. Civ. P. 56(e)).
b.

Review of a Land Use Decision under CLUDMA

A county appeal authority’s decision is presumed valid, and reviewed only to
determine, based on the record, whether it is arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. Utah Code
§ 17-27a-801(3)(a) & (8)(a). The decision at issue here – a county planning
commission’s decision not to revoke a CUP – is an administrative decision reviewed
under the substantial evidence standard. Utah Code § 17-27a-801(3)(b) & (c); Salon
Tropicana Midvale, Inc. v. Midvale City, Case No. 20090057-CA, 2009 UT App 327,
*6-*8, 2009 Utah App. LEXIS 345 (Nov. 13, 2009) (Mem. Dec.) (unpublished)

10

(reviewing city appeal authority’s decision upholding its planning commission’s decision
to revoke a CUP under the substantial evidence standard).
“‘Substantial evidence is that quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is
adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion.’” Patterson v. Utah
County Board of Adjustment, 893 P.2d 602, 604 n. 6 (Utah Ct. App. 1995) (quoting
First Nat’l Bank of Boston v. County Bd. of Equalization, 799 P.2d 1163, 1165 (Utah
1990) (quotation marks omitted).) “It is ‘more than a mere scintilla of evidence . . .
though something less than the weight of the evidence.’” Id. (quoting Grace Drilling Co.
v. Board of Review, 776 P.2d 63, 68 (Utah Ct. App. 1989) (quotation marks and citation
omitted)).
A decision is illegal if it “violates a law, statute, or ordinance in effect at the time
the decision was made . . . .” Utah Code § 17-27a-801(3)(d).
ARGUMENT
I.

The County’s decision not to revoke the CUP was not arbitrary or
capricious. (Third ¶¶ 138-401, Fourth ¶¶ 141-42, and Fifth ¶¶ 143-60 Causes of
Action)
a.

NMA’s claims that the County’s decision on remand is arbitrary or
capricious should be dismissed under the doctrine of the law of the case.

NMA’s challenge to county commission’s decision as arbitrary or capricious
based on sPower’s alleged failure to meet the CUP’s sound, light, and so-called selfimposed conditions to purchase NMA’s properties or make mitigation payments has
1 Although NMA labels its third claim as asserting illegality, its foundational allegation

that the County is not enforcing what it claims are the CUP’s conditions rests upon a
prerequisite factual determination that the County erred in determining that what NMA
claims are conditions in fact are not, i.e., that the County’s decision finding substantial
evidence that sPower is meeting the CUP’s conditions was error.
11

already been heard and decided by this Court, and therefore falls under the doctrine of
the law of the case. The Court has already held, based on the same evidence, that the
county commission’s decision affirming the county planning commission’s decision not
to revoke sPower’s CUP was supported by substantial evidence. (Stmt. of Facts ¶ 12.) No
exception to the doctrine applies that warrants the Court’s reconsideration.
“Law of the case is a legal doctrine courts apply when refusing to readdress an
issue previously decided in the same case.” Smith v. Hruby-Mills, 2016 UT App 159, ¶
15, 380 P.3d 349 (quotation marks omitted). “‘[U]nder the law of the case doctrine, a
decision made on an issue during one stage of a case is binding in successive stages of
the same litigation.’” Id. (quoting IHC Health Servs., Inc. v. D&K Mgmt., Inc., 2008 UT
73, ¶ 26, 196 P.3d 588). “‘[A] court should not reconsider and overrule a decision made
by a co-equal court.’” Id. (quoting State v. O’Neil, 848 P.2d 694, 697 (Utah Ct. App.
1993) (emphasis original), abrogated on different grounds by State v. Doporto, 935
P.2d 484 (Utah 1997).
NMA asserted in NMA I that the county commission’s decision was arbitrary and
capricious because the sound exceeded 55 decibels on some NMA property, sPower had
not used dark sky technology, and sPower had not met self-imposed conditions
regarding ice throw, purchasing NMA properties, or making mitigation payments.
(Stmt. of Facts ¶ 11.) NMA makes the same arguments here. (Compl. ¶¶ 138-60.) But the
Court nonetheless held in NMA I that the county commission’s decision was supported
by substantial evidence. (Stmt. of Facts ¶ 12.) The law of the case doctrine therefore
advises that the Court adhere to its prior decision.

12

The doctrine does not apply under certain exceptional circumstances, none of
which apply here. “There are three exceptional circumstances in which the law of the
case doctrine does not apply: (1) when there has been an intervening change of
controlling authority; (2) when new evidence has become available; or (3) when the
court is convinced that its prior decision was clearly erroneous and would work a
manifest injustice.” IHC Health Servs., Inc. v. D&K Mgmt., Inc., 2008 UT 73, ¶ 34, 196
P.3d 588) (quotation marks omitted). But there has been no intervening change in
controlling authority, no new evidence is available because the parties were limited to
the same record that was before the Court in NMA I (Stmt. of Facts ¶ 13), and NMA has
not alleged that the Court’s prior decision is clearly erroneous or would work a manifest
injustice. Under these circumstances, the law of the case advises leaving the Court’s
decision undisturbed.
b.

NMA’s claims regarding self-imposed conditions would nonetheless fail
because the County did not impose such conditions.

Only sound, light, and flicker mitigation are included in the County-approved
CUP. Proposed conditions regarding ice throw, purchasing the NMA properties, and
mitigation payments were suggested by sPower’s predecessor, Wasatch Wind, not
imposed by the County. To the extent NMA bases its challenge on those so-called selfimposed conditions, it fails because they were not imposed by the County and therefore
cannot serve as a basis for revoking the permit.
Although the planning and zoning commission discussed Wasatch Wind’s
proposed conditions at the time it issued the CUP, the county never adopted them. The

13

only conditions the county adopted were those reflected in the motion approved by the
planning and zoning commission:
[I]ncorporate as much flicker, light, sound[ ] mitigation as possible, and to
meet all industry standards of those challenges, . . . and reiterating that all
and any new land purchase lease deals be in writing for any contiguous
and affected landowners. . . . [A]ny mitigation and standards and
conditions of this CUP must be met by any and all project development
people, be they owners now or in the future, and all of these be met at the
time of building permit issuance.
(Stmt. of Facts ¶¶ 2-3.)
NMA instead appears to rely on a document entitled “Summary of Findings and
Conclusions,” which was prepared by Wasatch Wind and discusses what NMA calls the
self-imposed conditions. (Stmt. of Facts ¶ 2.) During the October 2012 CUP hearing,
Wasatch Wind’s attorney, Tom Ellison, referenced it, describing “the second document
that I brought to the table, and it addresses, or I mean, this is a proposed set of
findings.” (Id.) There is no evidence, however, that the County ever adopted those
conditions.
c.

Regardless, substantial evidence that sPower was complying with the
CUP’s conditions supports the county commission’s decision to affirm the
decision not to revoke it.

The only arguments upon which NMA bases its claims that implicate the CUP’s
actual conditions are that the windmills’ noise exceeds fifty-five decibels on portions of
some NMA properties and possibly that sPower has not implemented “dark sky
technology” – a technology that turns on aircraft warning lights on the windmills when
aircraft are sensed nearby, but otherwise keeps them dark – although that specific
condition was not imposed by the planning commission. (Compl. ¶¶ 140(a) & (c),

14

142(d)(i) & (iii), 150(b)(i) & (iii); Stmt. of Facts ¶¶ 2-3.) But the County’s decision that
the noise level and lack of dark sky technology do not violate the CUP’s conditions is
supported by substantial evidence.
i.

sPower presented substantial evidence that it was meeting the
CUP’s noise mitigation condition.

sPower asserts that there is no industry limit for noise on vacant agricultural land
like NMA’s. (Stmt. of Facts ¶ 6.c.ii.) NMA presented no evidence suggesting otherwise.
It argued that the County should have adopted other limits as the standard, but it did
not show that those standards are common throughout the industry. Thus, whatever
NMA’s noise complaint, it does not violate the CUP’s condition.
According to a 2015 sound study based on the quieter GE turbines sPower chose
to use, portions of only one of the NMA properties might experience noise greater than
the 47-decibel residential standard.
In light of this evidence, the County commission concluded that it would not
disturb the planning commission’s decision and could not say that it lacked substantial
evidence. (Stmt. of Facts ¶ 14.) The County’s decision to affirm the planning
commission’s decision was therefore supported by more than a scintilla of evidence.
ii.

sPower presented substantial evidence that it was meeting the
CUP’s light mitigation condition.

In response to the complaints that it was not satisfying the CUP’s condition to
mitigate light pollution, sPower asserted that it had implemented a lighting plan for its
substation and regular operations that prescribed turning on external light only when
employees were present and using the facilities. sPower pointed its light downward

15

where possible, including on its substation. sPower also explained that it worked with
the FAA to get a lighting plan approved that required only fourteen of its twenty-seven
windmills to be equipped with red safety lights. (Stmt. of Facts ¶ 6.b.i.)
NMA alleges that sPower failed to meet the CUP’s light mitigation requirement
because it didn’t implement dark sky technology, which, according to NMA, turns off the
red safety lights when aircraft aren’t present. (Compl. ¶¶ 34, 140(c), 142(d)(iii),
150(b)(iii).) Not only is dark sky technology itself one of the so-called self-imposed
conditions that the County cannot enforce, but NMA also offers no evidence that
implementing such technology is standard across the industry to mitigate light pollution
affecting vacant agricultural land.
The County’s decision that sPower is providing sufficient light pollution
mitigation is, considering NMA’s failure to provide any evidence that a higher standard
is warranted, supported by more than a scintilla of evidence.
II.

The County’s decision not to revoke the CUP was not illegal. (First ¶¶
122-28, Second ¶¶ 129-37, and Sixth ¶¶ 161-63 Causes of Action)
a.

NMA’s argument that the County’s decision is illegal because it was not
permitted to reconsider its written decision contradicts the law of the
case.

NMA argued in NMA I that the County erred when it reconsidered its initial
written decision. According to NMA, the County lacked the authority to reconsider its
decision without a specific statutory authorization, and, regardless, NMA argued, the
reconsideration was illegal because NMA wasn’t allowed to respond to sPower’s letter.
(NMA I, Pl.’s Mot. for Summ. J. at 18-19; NMA I, Pl.’s Comb. Opp’n and Reply to County
at 12-15.) The Court held that, while the County had inherent authority to reconsider its

16

decisions, it had violated NMA’s rights by not allowing it to respond to sPower’s request.
(Stmt. of Facts ¶ 12.) Because NMA’s claim has been considered and decided by this
Court, the law of the case advises against its reconsideration unless certain exceptional
circumstances are present, which NMA has not alleged. See supra, Part I.a.
b.

Regardless whether the Court chooses to revisit the issue, the county
commission had inherent authority to reconsider its decision upon
receiving sPower’s letter.

Utah has adopted the majority rule that tribunals like county land use appeal
authorities have inherent power to reconsider decisions over which they haven’t lost
control unless prohibited by law. The county commission properly exercised that
authority here when it reconsidered its initial written decision on remand in light of
sPower’s letter.
“Inherent in the power to make an administrative decision is the authority to
reconsider a decision. The absence of specific authority in the governing statutes is not
determinative. Every tribunal has some power to correct its own mistakes.” Clark v.
Hansen, 631 P.2d 914, 915 (Utah 1981) (citations omitted). See also DLB Collection
Trust by Helgesen & Waterfall v. Harris, 893 P.2d 593, 595 n. 1 (Utah Ct. App. 1995)
(describing Clark’s conclusion as “axiomatic”). “Utah is among the majority of western
states to have held that administrative agencies have the power to reconsider their
decisions in the absence of statutory provisions to the contrary.” Career Service Review
Board v. Utah Dep’t of Corrections (“CSRB”), 942 P.2d 933, 945 (Utah 1997).
Unless prohibited by law, therefore, the county commission acted within its
inherent authority to reconsider and amend its decision on remand. After briefing and a

17

hearing in which NMA was allowed to – and did – fully participate, the county
commission amended its decision to reflect that, after considering evidence that it had
mistakenly failed to consider before it rendered its initial decision, it had instead
decided to affirm the planning commission’s decision not to revoke sPower’s CUP.
(Stmt. of Facts ¶¶ 13-14.)
Although CLUDMA’s appeal provisions explain that the appeal authority’s
decision is effective when the written decision is issued, and that it is considered a final
decision ripe for judicial review, Utah Code §§ 17-27a-708 & -801, the statutes do not
prohibit the appeal authority (here, the county commission) from exercising its inherent
authority to reconsider its decision.
Both CSRB and Clark occurred in the context of statutory judicial review schemes
analogous to CLUDMA’s, but the supreme court nonetheless decided that the
government bodies at issue could reconsider their decisions under inherent, rather than
statutory, authority. In CSRB, the supreme court found the board’s attempt to justify its
decision to revisit a prior order under the controlling Utah Administrative Procedures
Act “unconvincing” before affirming the board’s action under its inherent authority.2
CSRB, 942 P.2d at 945. And in Clark the review was under Utah Code § 73-3-14 (1943),
which required those aggrieved with the state engineer’s decision to “bring a civil action

The majority implicitly rejected the argument NMA makes here, as Justice Howe
authored a dissent in part relying on Utah Code § 63-46b-13 (1997), the predecessor to
the statute NMA relies on, Utah Code § 63G-4-302. CSRB, 942 P.2d at 948 (Howe, J.
dissenting).
2

18

in the district court for a plenary review thereof” within sixty days after mailed notice.3
Id.; Clark, 631 P.2d at 915. CSRB and Clark therefore confirm that a statutory review
scheme is not equivalent to a prohibition against a government body exercising its
inherent authority to reconsider its decision.
In DLB Collection Trust, the Utah Court of Appeals cited Clark to support its
conclusion that a district court has authority to correct its mistakes. Id., 893 P.2d at 595,
n. 1. That holding is particularly relevant here, because the county commission’s
decision was quasi-judicial. In CSRB, the supreme court subsequently accepted as
established that Utah courts “have the authority in the absence of a controlling statute to
modify orders still under their control.” CSRB, 942 P.2d at 945.
Taken to its logical end, prohibiting a government tribunal from reconsidering its
decision under these circumstances would yield absurd results. A county appeal
authority, for example, could not reconsider its decision even to correct an obvious,
indisputable error. The parties would have no choice but to incur the time and expense
of review if they wished to correct the error, far from the “just, speedy, and inexpensive
determination,” Utah R. Civ. P. 1, to which Utah’s courts aspire.
c.

NMA’s claim that the county commission’s decision on remand is illegal
because it was not allowed to present evidence at the planning
commission revocation hearing fails because it doesn’t identify a
protectable property interest.

NMA’s attempt to raise a claim that its due process rights were violated because it
wasn’t allowed to present evidence at the planning commission’s revocation hearing

3 Clark, decided in 1981, does not specifically address any other statute and appears to

predate Utah Code § 63-46b-13 (section 63G-4-302’s precursor), enacted in 1987.
19

fails because it has not identified a protectable property interest that required such
process.
“‘To state a cognizable substantive [or procedural] due process claim, [plaintiffs]
must first allege sufficient facts to show a property or liberty interest warranting due
process protection.’” Petersen v. Riverton City, 2010 UT 58, ¶ 21, 243 P.3d 1261
(quoting Patterson v. Am. Fork City, 2003 UT 7, ¶ 23, 67 P.3d 466) (alterations
original) (quotation marks and citations omitted). “The United States Supreme Court
has defined a property interest ‘as a legitimate claim of entitlement to some benefit.’” Id.
(quoting Hyde Park Co. v. Santa Fe City Council, 226 F.3d 1207, 1210 (10th Cir. 2000))
(quotation marks and citations omitted). “‘An abstract need for, or unilateral
expectation of, a benefit does not constitute property.’” Id. ¶ 22 (quoting Hyde Park,
226 F.3d at 1210) (alteration and quotation marks omitted). “Rather, a property interest
exists only where ‘existing rules and understandings that stem from an independent
source such as state law . . . secure certain benefits and [ ] support claims of entitlement
to those benefits.’” Id. (alterations original).
NMA has identified nothing more than its members’ abstract right to unrestricted
use and enjoyment of their property. (Pl.’s Mot. for Summ. J. at 21 (quoting United
States v. James Daniel Good Real Prop., 510 U.S. 43 (1993), a civil forfeiture case
addressing a physical taking, not a decision refusing to revoke an allegedly
noncompliant conditional use permit).) That is insufficient under the controlling law,
which requires instead a legitimate claim of entitlement to a benefit. In contrast,
sPower’s legitimate claim to entitlement to a benefit – its conditional use permit – was

20

threatened with revocation, giving it a due process right to be heard. The County’s
ordinances reflect this critical distinction by explicitly allowing the permit holder the
right to be heard at a revocation hearing. SJZO § 6-10.
The right at issue before the planning commission that gave rise to these petitions
was sPower’s CUP, not any permit or application held by NMA members. The planning
commission was therefore within its authority to limit comment at the hearing to just
the permit holder, sPower. NMA, moreover, was heard. Its complaints were among
those that prompted the planning commission to hold the revocation hearing (Pl.’s Mot.
for Summ. J. at 9, ¶ 40), and it could have included whatever statements and evidence it
wished with those complaints. NMA doesn’t explain whether the comments it sought to
present at the revocation hearing would have been any different than what it included in
its complaints, or, if not, why the comments couldn’t have been included with its
complaints. Because it lacked a protectable property interest in sPower’s permit, and
because it regardless had a meaningful opportunity to be heard, NMA’s claim that the
County’s decision is illegal because it should have remanded the dispute back to the
planning commission with an instruction to allow NMA to comment at a hearing fails.
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, summary judgment should be entered for the County.
DATE: 20 November 2017.
GOEBEL ANDERSON PC
/s/Barton H. Kunz II
Barton H. Kunz II
Attorneys for County Respondents

21

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I caused a true and correct copy of the foregoing crossmotion for summary judgment to be served upon the following by an electronic filing
service on 20 November 2017:
For petitioner:
J. Craig Smith, jcsmith@shutah.law
Jennie B. Garner, jgarner@shutah.law
For Intervening Respondents:
Paul W. Shakespear, pshakespear@swlaw.com
Elizabeth M. Brereton, lbrereton@swlaw.com
/s/Barton H. Kunz II
Barton H. Kunz II
Attorney for County Respondents

22

