Barton H. Kunz II (USB# 08827)
GOEBEL ANDERSON PC
405 South Main Street, Suite 200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Telephone: (801) 441-9393
bkunz@gapclaw.com
Attorneys for County Respondents
SEVENTH DISTRICT COURT – MONTICELLO DEPARTMENT
SAN JUAN COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH
NORTHERN MONTICELLO ALLIANCE,
LLC,
Petitioner,

COUNTY’S OPPOSITION TO
PETITIONER NMA’S MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT

vs.
SAN JUAN COUNTY COMMISSION et al.,
Respondents,
SUSTAINABLE POWER GROUP, LLC;
and LATIGO WIND PROJECT, LLC,

Case No. 170700006
Judge Lyle R. Anderson

Intervening Respondents.
Respondents San Juan County Commission and San Juan County (collectively
“County”), through counsel and under Utah Rules of Civil Procedure 7 and 56, hereby
oppose petitioner Northern Monticello Alliance, LLC’s (“NMA”) motion for summary
judgment.
//
//

INTRODUCTION
The County reasserts and incorporates by this reference the Introduction section
of its contemporaneously filed County’s Cross-motion for Summary Judgment, pages
2-3.
PREFERRED DISPOSITION AND GROUNDS THEREFOR
The County requests that the Court deny NMA’s motion for summary judgment,
and instead grant the County’s cross-motion.
The law of the case doctrine bars NMA’s claim that the County’s decision is
arbitrary and capricious because the Court has already ruled that it was supported by
substantial evidence. Even if not precluded by the law of the case, the County’s decision
was supported by substantial evidence and NMA cannot insist that the County enforce
self-imposed conditions.
NMA lacks a protected property interest in sPower’s CUP, and therefore its due
process rights were not violated when it was prohibited form comment at sPower’s
revocation hearing.
Finally, the law of the case doctrine also prevents NMA from claiming that the
county commission lacked the inherent authority to reconsider its initial written
decision, which it possessed and properly exercised on remand.
The County also incorporates by this reference the arguments, responses, and
facts asserted by its codefendant, sPower, in its opposition to NMA’s motion.
//
//

2

RESPONSE TO NMA’S STATEMENT OF FACTS
a.

Disputed Factual Allegations

Per rule 56(a)(2), the County disputes the following facts for the reasons cited.
The County also objects, and therefore does not respond, to many of NMA’s factual
allegations, as addressed in the objections section below. The County’s responses are
intended solely for the limited context of NMA’s motion. It does not intend thereby to
waive objections or its ability to subsequently dispute NMA’s allegations in this matter.
Disputed Allegation

County’s Response

7. Reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of the turbines on the NMA
Property include: (a) Flicker from the
shadow of the 381-foot diameter turbine
blades (“Flicker”) (R0750); (b) bright
flashing red aviation warning lights placed
on top of several Turbines to warn aircraft
of the 453-foot-tall turbines during the
night (“Light”) (R0751); (c) a loud buzzing
sound generated by the spinning turbine
blades, which can be as loud as 108
decibels for a single Turbine, as well as
noise generated in the gearbox and a
rhythmic low frequency noise from the
pressure change as each of the three blades
passes the tower (“Sound” (R0589,
R1631); and (d) Ice throw, which occurs
when ice buildup on the Turbine blades is
hurled off the blades and away from the
Turbine (“Ice Throw”). (R0750.)

Disputed. Most of NMA’s citations are to
proposed findings prepared by Wasatch
Wind but never adopted by the County.
Moreover, most of the details appearing in
this paragraph do not appear on the pages
cited. The turbine noise level cited here
was for turbines that ultimately were not
used.

10. The Amended CUP included the
condition, set forth in the meeting
minutes, that “as much flicker, light,
sound, mitigation as possible” be
implemented at the Wind Facility.
(R.0855, R.1809.) The Amended CUP
further required Latigo, and any successor

Disputed. This description of the CUP’s
conditions is incomplete and potentially
misleading. Moreover, the conditions were
to be met “at the time” the building permit
issued. An accurate statement of the CUP’s
conditions appears in the statement of
facts supporting the County’s cross-

3

Disputed Allegation

County’s Response

to Latigo, to meet all mitigation standards
prior to the issuance of any building
permit. (R0819-0821.)

motion, ¶ 3, incorporated by this
reference.

11. The Amended CUP also required Latigo
to follow certain so-called “self-imposed
conditions” that were set forth in the
original CUP application on June 29, 2012,
during the hearing for the Amended CUP,
or through later promises. (R0066,
R0068-0069, R0803-0804, R08600861.) The self-imposed conditions were
expressly made binding upon all future
owners or developers – including sPower.
(R1808.)

Disputed. The self-imposed conditions
were never approved by the County as
conditions on the sPower CUP. (County’s
Cross-mot. for Summ. J. at 4-5, ¶¶ 2-3.)

12. One self-imposed condition made part
of the Amended CUP was to limit the
decibel level of the Turbines at the
boundary of the Wind Facility and NMA
Property, so that it would not exceed 55
decibels. (R0027,R1633.)

Disputed. The self-imposed conditions
were never approved by the County as
conditions on the sPower CUP. (County’s
Cross-mot. for Summ. J. at 4-5, ¶¶ 2-3.)

13. An additional self-imposed condition
made part of the Amended CUP,
consistent with the purpose of the Zoning
Ordinance, is that Ice Throw from the
Turbines would not impact persons
residing or working in the vicinity, or
injure adjacent property. (R0926-0927.)

Disputed. The self-imposed conditions
were never approved by the County as
conditions on the sPower CUP. (County’s
Cross-mot. for Summ. J. at 4-5, ¶¶ 2-3.)

19. In 2013, Wasatch Wind and its
subsidiary Latigo sold their interests in the
Wind Facility, and assigned the Amended
CUP along with the Option Agreement, to
Sustainable Power Group, LLC
(“sPower,” sometimes referred to as
“s*Power”).

Disputed. NMA offers no citation to
support this allegation, and it contradicts
sPower’s own assertion that its purchase
closed in June 2015. (sPower’s Answer, ¶
40.)

20. The Amended CUP required that, at
the time the building permit was issued by
the County to construct the Wind Facility,

Disputed. An accurate statement of the
CUP’s conditions appears in the statement
of facts supporting the County’s cross-

4

Disputed Allegation

County’s Response

the County would verifiy that all the
conditions imposed by the Amended CUP
had been instituted in the construction
plans and would be included as part of the
Wind Facility. (R. [sic] R0751-0752,
R0819-0821.)

motion, ¶ 3, incorporated by this
reference.

24. The Wind Facility, as constructed, does
not include many of the conditions to
mitigate Flicker, Light, Sound, and Ice
Throw required by the Amended CUP as
set forth in detail below. (R1629-1639.)

Disputed. The planning commission, the
county commission, and this Court have
found otherwise. Moreover, ice throw is
not a condition imposed by the County.
(County’s Cross-mot. for Summ. J. at 5, ¶
3.)

35. The Amended CUP and its
requirement of mitigating the detrimental
effects of Flicker, Light, Sound, and Ice
Throw were based on specifically approved
Turbine sites subject only to “micrositing.”
(R1651.) A map showing the approved
Turbine locations and the constructed
Turbine locations is attached as Exhibit
A.

Disputed. Ice throw was not a condition
the County imposed. (County’s Cross-mot.
for Summ. J. at 5, ¶ 3.) The record citation,
moreover, is just a map and says nothing
about limiting turbine relocation to
micrositing.

36. However, when sPower began the
construction of the Wind Facility, several
Turbines were relocated substantially
closer to the NMA Property, increasing the
detrimental effects of Flicker, Light,
Sound, and Ice Throw to the NMA
Property. (R1634, 1638.)

Disputed. NMA is citing itself and not any
authority supporting its conclusion that
the relocation was substantial or that
detrimental effects were increased.

42. The Planning Commission convened a
Public Hearing on September 9, 2015
(R0578-0579.)

Disputed in part. The meeting was public,
but it was a revocation hearing, not a
public hearing.

43. Notwithstanding its stated intent to
have sPower answer questions of NMA
and its Members at the Public Hearing on
the revocation of the Amended CUP, the
Planning Commission, refused to allow the
NMA or its Members to speak or present

Disputed in part. The meeting was public,
but it was a revocation hearing, not a
public hearing. Additionally, the planning
commission suggested only that NMA’s
questions be put to sPower, not that NMA
do the questioning.

5

Disputed Allegation

County’s Response

any verbal testimony, argument, or written
evidence to the Planning Commission
during the Public Hearing. (R0568-0569.)
44. NMA was precluded from offering and
arguing evidence regarding sPower’s
failures to observe the conditions of the
Amended CUP, including . . . .

Disputed in part. The cited record does not
show that sPower was failing to observe
the permit’s conditions. The listed
conditions, moreover, are self-imposed,
not the conditions approved by the
County. (County’s Cross-mot. for Summ. J.
at 5, ¶ 3.)

47. The Planning Commission failed to
identify what “additional information,” if
any, it reviewed between September 9,
2015, and September 14, 2015. In fact, the
Planning Commission failed to identify
any evidence upon which it relied.
(R0851.)

Disputed in part. The planning
commission did make findings of fact and
conclusions of law. (R0568-R0581.)

48. The Planning Commission failed to
make detailed findings of fact or
conclusions of law regarding . . . .

Disputed in part. The planning
commission did make findings of fact and
conclusions of law. (R0568-R0581.) But
not as specific as alleged here. The County
affirmatively alleges that some of the listed
findings would have been unwarranted
because they deal with self-imposed
conditions.

49. In fact, the Planning Commission
failed to issue a written decision or make
any express findings of fact or conclusions
of law. (R0003, Ro581).

Disputed. The planning commission did
make findings of fact and conclusions of
law. (R0568-R0581.)

51. There is nothing in the record to
demonstrate that the Planning
Commission considered the Flicker, Light
and Sound studies submitted by Mr.
McBride in making the P&Z Decision.
(R0018.) The Planning Commission failed
to identify any documents upon which it
relied. (R0581.)

Disputed in part. The planning
commission did identify studies from
sPower. (R0568-R0581.)

6

Disputed Allegation

County’s Response

63. The Commission convened the hearing
on January 3, 2017, at which time NMA
was permitted to present only argument
on evidence already in the record. NMA
was not permitted to present any new
evidence in rebuttal of sPower’s false
representations or evidence of sPower’s
continuing failures to comply with the
Amended CUP. (R1834.)

Disputed in part. The cited record doesn’t
support NMA’s assertion that sPower
made false representations or that it was
failing to comply with the CUP’s
conditions.

b.

Objections to Factual Allegations

NMA alleges a lengthy statement of fact in support of its motion for summary
judgment. Many, if not most, of those alleged facts are irrelevant to the questions posed
by NMA’s suit and are better characterized as background or introduction than material
facts. But because NMA has alleged them as material facts, the County is compelled to
respond. Per rule 7(d)(1)(c), the County makes the following evidentiary objections to
NMA’s factual allegations in support of its motion:
1.

The County objects to the following paragraphs as irrelevant under Utah

Rules of Evidence 401 and 402 because they are immaterial to the issues presented in
this suit: paragraphs 6 (regarding the height of turbines and blade length); 22 & 50
(issuance of building permit); and 54 (detailing the holdings of the County’s initial
decision).
2.

The County objects to the following paragraphs as irrelevant under Utah

Rules of Evidence 401 and 402 because they challenge the County’s initial grant of the
CUP, which is not at issue: paragraphs 5 and 7.

7

3.

The County objects to the following paragraphs as lacking foundation

under Utah Rules of Evidence 401 and 402 and argumentative because they address
alleged detrimental effects that were not found by the County: paragraphs 7 and 8.
4.

The County objects to the following paragraphs as irrelevant under Utah

Rules of Evidence 401 and 402 because they deal with flicker, which NMA has not raised
as a basis for its claims, and with so-called self-imposed conditions, which were not
imposed by the County: paragraphs 7, 14-18, 23, 25-30, 31 (also argumentative), and 39.
5.

The County objects to the following paragraphs as irrelevant under Utah

Rules of Evidence 401 and 402 because they deal with issues upon which the Court has
already ruled: paragraphs 7, 9-10, 32-34, and 37-38.
6.

The County objects to all references to its initial written decision as the

“Final Written Decision” as argumentative. While the County understands NMA’s
argument, there have now been two additional decisions following what NMA is calling
the “Final Written Decision.” The moniker lacks foundation and is ambiguous.
COUNTY’S STATEMENT OF ADDITIONAL UNDISPUTED MATERIAL FACTS
The County restates and incorporates by this reference the Statement of
Undisputed Material Facts set forth in its contemporaneously filed County’s Crossmotion for Summary Judgment, pages 4-10.
LEGAL STANDARDS
Where, as here, NMA bears the burden of proof, it “has an affirmative duty to
provide the [C]ourt with facts that demonstrate both that the party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law and that there are no material issues of fact that would

8

require resolution at trial.” Orvis v. Johnson, 2008 UT 2, P 19, 177 P.3d 600. The
County otherwise restates and incorporates by this reference the legal standards set
forth in its contemporaneously filed County’s Cross-motion for Summary Judgment,
pages 10-11.
ARGUMENT
I.

NMA’s argument that the County’s decision on remand is arbitrary
and capricious is barred by the law of the case or improperly seeks to
impose new conditions, and the decision is supported by substantial
evidence. (Responding to Part I of NMA’s argument, pp. 14-20)
For the reasons stated in Subparts I.a-c of the County’s argument in its

contemporaneously filed County’s Cross-motion for Summary Judgment, pages 11-16,
which the County reasserts here and incorporates by this reference, NMA’s claim that
the County’s decision is arbitrary and capricious fails under the doctrine of the law of
the case, improperly rests on so-called self-imposed conditions never imposed by the
County, and contradicts the substantial evidence supporting the County’s decision.
In addition to the foregoing, the County separately addresses NMA’s argument
that its decision fails because it did not provide written, detailed factual findings. (Pl.’s
Mot. for Summ. J. at 14-16.) NMA relies on the recent Utah Supreme Court opinion
McElhaney v. City of Moab, 2017 UT 65, for its assertion. While the County agrees that
McElhaney requires adjudicative bodies like land use appeal authorities to set forth
written findings of fact and conclusions of law sufficient for review, id. ¶¶ 41-42, NMA’s
analysis misses two critical distinctions between this case and McElhaney.
First, McElhaney was dealing with a CUP denial, not a revocation hearing. Id. ¶ 1.
The distinction is material because, without findings, the district court was left to divine

9

the city council’s reasoning for denying the permit from comments made during the
hearing. Id. ¶ 31. In contrast, the issue here is whether the planning commission based
its decision not to revoke sPower’s extant CUP on substantial evidence. The CUP’s
conditions are known, as is the evidence provided. The only question is whether the
evidence was substantial enough to justify the County’s decision.1
The planning commission did, moreover, provide the county commission with
written findings and conclusions. (R0568-R0581.) The planning commission explained
why it determined it could not enforce the self-imposed conditions and that, based on
the studies it received from sPower “concerning sound, flicker, and light,” including
thresholds and how there were determined and the neighboring properties affected, it
unanimously determined that the conditions were met. (R0571.)
NMA also criticizes the County for supposedly not applying the “whole record
test” when considering its appeal.2 (Pl.’s Mot. for Summ. J. at 16.) Under that test, “a
court must consider not only the evidence supporting the Boards’ factual findings, but
also the evidence that fairly detracts from the weight of the [Board’s] evidence.” Grace
Drilling Co. v. Board of Review, 776 P.2d 63, 68 (Utah Ct. App. 1989) (quotation marks
omitted; alteration original). But NMA bases its argument solely on the fact that some of
the turbines were moved closer to NMA properties, and its speculation that the
relocation must have a detrimental effect. But that is insufficient under the whole record
test, which required NMA to marshal the evidence supporting the County’s finding and
1 NMA’s argument focuses on factual findings, not legal conclusions.
2 The County assumes arguendo that the test’s application here would be the same as in

Grace Drilling under the Utah Administrative Procedures Act.
10

directs the Court to side with the County when faced with conflicting views of the
evidence. Id.
A similar deficiency applies to NMA’s challenges to sPower’s contention that it
secured the FAA’s permission to decrease the number of turbines required to have safety
lights. NMA asserts that sPower hasn’t provided sufficient evidence supporting its
assertion (Pl.’s Mot. for Summ. J. at 19), but in doing so improperly attempts to shift its
own burden onto sPower.
Finally, to the extent NMA bases its claims on flicker mitigation they fail.
Although it frequently references flicker in its complaint, its claims are not based on
flicker allegations, but rather sound, light, and self-imposed conditions.
II.

NMA’s due process rights have not been violated because it lacks a
protectable property interest in sPower’s compliance with the CUP’s
conditions. (Responding to Part II of NMA’s argument, pp. 20-23)
For the reasons stated in Subpart II.c of the County’s argument in its

contemporaneously filed County’s Cross-motion for Summary Judgment, pages 19-21,
which the County reasserts here and incorporates by this reference, NMA’s claim that
the County’s decision was illegal because it violated its due process rights not to be
allowed to comment at the revocation hearing fails. NMA had no protectable property
interest in sPower’s CUP or in sPower’s compliance with the CUP’s conditions that
would trigger a right to be heard at the hearing.
//
//
//

11

III.

NMA’s argument that the county commission lacked the authority to
reconsider its decision is barred under the law of the case doctrine
and ignores its inherent authority. (Responding to Part III of NMA’s
argument, pp. 23-26)
For the reasons stated in Subparts II.a & b of the County’s argument in its

contemporaneously filed County’s Cross-motion for Summary Judgment, pages 16-19,
which the County reasserts here and incorporates by this reference, NMA’s claim that
the County’s decision was illegal because it lacked the authority to reconsider its
decision is barred by the law of the case doctrine because the Court already decided that
question in the County’s favor in NMA I and, regardless, contradicts Utah precedent
endorsing the majority rule that tribunals are allowed to revisit their decisions.
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, NMA’s motion for summary judgment should be
denied and the County’s cross-motion granted.

DATE: 20 November 2017.
GOEBEL ANDERSON PC
/s/Barton H. Kunz II
Barton H. Kunz II
Attorneys for County Respondents
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I caused a true and correct copy of the foregoing opposition
to NMA’s motion for summary judgment to be served upon the following by an
electronic filing service on 20 November 2017:
For petitioner:
J. Craig Smith, jcsmith@shutah.law

12

Jennie B. Garner, jgarner@shutah.law
For Intervening Respondents:
Paul W. Shakespear, pshakespear@swlaw.com
Elizabeth M. Brereton, lbrereton@swlaw.com
/s/Barton H. Kunz II
Barton H. Kunz II
Attorney for County Respondents

13

