J. Craig Smith (4143)
jcsmith@shutah.law
Jennie B. Garner (5486)
jgarner@shutah.law
Aaron M. Worthen (15292)
aworthen@shutah.law
SMITH HARTVIGSEN, PLLC
175 South Main Street, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Telephone: (801) 413-1600
Facsimile: (801) 413-1620
Attorneys for Plaintiffs/Petitioners
SEVENTH DISTRICT COURT – MONTICELLO DEPARTMENT
SAN JUAN COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH
NORTHERN MONTICELLO ALLIANCE,
LLC, a Utah limited liability company,
Plaintiff/Petitioner,
v.

NORTHERN MONTICELLO
ALLIANCE, LLC’S, COMBINED REPLY
SAN JUAN COUNTY COMMISSION, a
MEMORANDUM SUPPORTING NMA’S
political subdivision of the State of Utah and MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
SAN JUAN COUNTY, a political
AND RESPONSE OPPOSING
subdivision of the State of Utah.
COUNTY’S CROSS-MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Defendants/Respondents.
Case No. 170700006
SUSTAINABLE POWER GROUP, LLC
and LATIGO WIND PARK, LLC,
Judge Lyle Anderson
Intervening Respondents.
Plaintiff and Petitioner Northern Monticello Alliance, LLC (“NMA”) by and through its
undersigned counsel, respectfully submits this Combined Reply Memorandum Supporting NMA’s
Motion for Summary Judgment and Response Opposing San Juan County’s Cross-Motion for
Summary Judgment.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
NEW MATTERS RAISED IN COUNTY’S OPPOSING MEMORANDUM .............................. 1
RESPONSE TO COUNTY’S STATEMENT OF UNDISPUTED RELEVANT FACTS ............ 1
ARGUMENT .................................................................................................................................. 4
NMA’S ARGUMENTS ARE NOT BARRED BY THE “LAW OF THE CASE” DOCTRINE. ................ 4

I.
A.

This Appeal is Not the “Same Case” as NMA’s Prior Appeal. ....................................... 4

B.

Exceptional Circumstances Preclude Application of “Law of the Case” Doctrine. ....... 5
1.

There has Been an Intervening Change of Controlling Authority. ............................... 6

2.

The County Has Refused to Consider New Evidence. ................................................. 6

3.

The Commission’s Failure to Remand the Revocation Decision Back to the Planning
Commission for Findings of Fact Was Clearly Erroneous. .......................................... 7

II.

MCELHANEY REQUIRES THE PLANNING COMMISSION, AS A LAND USE AUTHORITY, AND THE
COMMISSION, AS A LAND USE APPEAL AUTHORITY, TO MAKE FINDINGS OF FACT CAPABLE
OF REVIEW ON APPEAL.......................................................................................................... 7

III.

NMA HAS A PROTECTABLE PROPERTY INTEREST. .............................................................. 12

IV.

MATERIAL THE COUNTY CHARACTERIZES AS “EVIDENCE” DOES NOT SUPPORT SPOWER’S
CLAIMS OF MITIGATION. ..................................................................................................... 15

CONCLUSION ............................................................................................................................. 17

ii

TABLE OF AUTHORITIES

CASES
Canfield v. Layton City, 2005 UT 60, 122 P.3d 622 ..................................................................... 15
IHC Health Servs., Inc. v. D&K Mgmt., Inc., 2008 UT 73, 196 P. 3d 588..................................... 6
McElhaney v. City of Moab, 2017 UT 65 ..................................................................... 1, 6, 8, 9, 11
Salt Lake City Corp. v. Jordan River Restoration Network, 2012 UT 84, 299 P. 3d 990 ............ 14
Smith v. Hruby-Mills, 2016 UT App 159, 380 P. 3d 349 ............................................................... 4
State v. Johnson, 2017 UT 76 ......................................................................................................... 5
United States v. James Daniel Good Real Prop., 510 U. S. 43 (1993) ........................................ 13

ZONING ORDINANCES
SAN JUAN COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE § 6-4 ......................................................................... 7, 13
SAN JUAN COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE § 6-10 ........................................................................... 13

STATUTES
Utah Code Ann. § 17-27a-801 ........................................................................................................ 2

iii

PREFERRED DISPOSITION
NMA requests that the Court deny the County’s Cross-Motion for Summary Judgment
(“Cross-Motion”) and grant NMA’s Motion for Summary Judgment (“NMA’s Motion”).
NEW MATTERS RAISED IN COUNTY’S OPPOSING MEMORANDUM
In its Opposition to Petitioner NMA’s Motion for Summary Judgment (“Opposition
Memo”) and Cross-Motion, the County argues that NMA’s Motion is faulty in four ways. First,
the County argues that NMA’s claim that the Amended Written Decision on Remand (“Remand
Decision”) issued by the San Juan County Commission (“Commission”) is arbitrary and
capricious is precluded by the “law of the case” doctrine. (Opposition Memo at 9.) Second, the
County argues that the Utah Supreme Court’s decision in McElhaney v. City of Moab, 2017 UT
65, is inapplicable because this Court is not reviewing a decision to deny a conditional use permit
and because NMA has failed to marshal the evidence in support of the Commission’s decision.
(Id. at 9-11.) Third, the County argues that NMA’s due process arguments fail because NMA has
no protectable property interest in sPower’s compliance with its Amended CUP conditions. (Id. at
11.) Fourth, the County asserts that, contrary to NMA’s arguments, substantial evidence supports
the Remand Decision. (Cross-Motion at 13-16.) Each of the County’s arguments fail.
RESPONSE TO COUNTY’S STATEMENT OF UNDISPUTED RELEVANT FACTS
As this Court knows, this is an on-the-record appeal. Thus, this Court must consider the
entire record and determine if substantial evidence supports the Commission’s Remand Decision.
Even if substantial evidence supports the Remand Decision, it must still be legal. Utah Code Ann.
§ 17-27a-801(3)(c). Thus, unlike a typical motion for summary judgment, the existence of disputed
material facts is not at issue. The record is the record. The law governing this appeal does not
contemplate, or even allow, a trial to resolve disputed facts. See Utah Code Ann. § 17-27a-801.

Rather than arguing facts, NMA will simply comment on selected facts highlighted in the County’s
Opposition Memo.
3.

As amended by the planning commission, the following conditions were added to the
CUP:
[I]ncorporate as much flicker, light, sound[] mitigation as possible, and to meet all
industry standards of those challenges, . . . and reiterating that all and any new land
purchase lease deals be in writing for any contiguous and affected landowners. . .. [A]ny
mitigation and standards and conditions of this CUP must be met by any and all project
development people, be they owners now or in the future, and all of these be met at the time
of building permit issuance. (R0568, R057-71, R0855, R0860-61.)
RESPONSE: While the County cites to the transcript of the October 4, 2012, hearing

where the amended conditional use permit (“Amended CUP”), issued to Wasatch Wind, sPower’s
predecessor-in-interest, was approved, it fails to provide a complete picture of all of the conditions,
imposed by the San Juan County Planning Commission (“Planning Commission”), on the CUP
at that meeting.1
In amending the CUP, the Planning Commission approved “voluntary standards” and “selfimposed” conditions presented by Wasatch Wind regarding industry standards, monetary
mitigation, and ice throw mitigation, in addition to those imposed at the time of the original CUP.
(R0853, R0855-0856, R0859-0860.) As stated by Marcia Hadenfeldt, the Chair of the Planning
Commission and the moving member, “we already gave them a CUP, we’re adding what
[Wasatch Wind] told us tonight, which are mostly mitigation issues.” (R0855 (emphasis added).)

1

The Planning Commission failed to make any written findings or create a written record of the
conditions upon which either the original or Amended CUP was issued. Thus, the conditions
must be gleaned from the minutes and transcript of the October 4, 2012, meeting of the Planning
Commission in which the Amended CUP was acted upon.
2

The Planning Commission further determined to hold both Wasatch Wind, as well as its successors
in interest, to the self-imposed mitigation standards proposed by Wasatch Wind. (R0803-0804.)
6. sPower provided the County evidence of its mitigation efforts, including the following
related to flicker, light, and sound:
a. Flicker
i. sPower decided against turbines from Siemens and Vestas in favor of a new
turbine manufactured by GE that had a shorter hub height that reduced the amount
of flicker because it casts a smaller shadow. (R1606.)
ii. In the expected scenario, none of the eleven receptors sPower tested exceeded
the baseline industry standard of flicker exposure not exceeding thirty minutes a day
for more than thirty hours a year. According to industry standards, there is no flicker
threshold to be met for undeveloped land like the NMA properties. (R1607-08.)
b. Light
i. sPower worked with the FAA to reduce the number of turbines required to
have navigation lights from twenty-seven to fourteen. (R1608-09.)
ii. sPower also developed a lighting plan for its substation and operations
building that eliminated lighting at night unless they are in use. Downward facing
lights will be used wherever possible. (R1609.)
c. Sound
i. sPower decided against turbines from Siemens and Vestas in favor of a new
turbine manufactured by GE that runs quieter than the Vestas model. (R1606.)
ii. sPower conducted sound studies to confirm that, through its placement of
turbines and selection of a quieter turbine, the wind park met all sound limits for
existing residences and businesses. Only two of the NMA parcels exceeded the
recommended threshold of fifty-five decibels for vacant land—roughly equivalent to
conversational speech or an air conditioning unit—along the edges of those
properties closest to the turbines. (R1606-07.)
RESPONSE: The County is citing bare assertions made by sPower in a letter dated
September 23, 2015 – after the Planning Commission had already made its decision not to revoke
the Amended CUP on September 14, 2015 (the “Revocation Decision”). (R1605-1611.) The
3

County cites no evidence that the Planning Commission ever considered the September 23, 2015
letter, or that the Planning Commission ever reviewed any independent authority or studies
supporting sPower’s assertions in the September 23, 2015 letter.
Further, sPower’s Updated Shadow Flicker Impact Assessment dated August 21, 2015, did
not even utilize data from receptors L-W located in the NMA Property, which had been used in
the initial Shadow Flicker Impact Assessment dated September 28, 2012, because “the Project
[had] the option to purchase this land once the wind farm is built” and the plan was that “these
lands [would] become part of the Project once the wind farm is operational.” (R0613, R0619.)
ARGUMENT
I.

NMA’S ARGUMENTS ARE NOT BARRED BY THE “LAW OF THE CASE” DOCTRINE.
The County invokes the “law of the case” doctrine to argue that the merits of this appeal

have already been determined and that the Court’s ruling in a prior appeal should be left
“undisturbed.” However, the “law of the case” doctrine does not apply.
A. This Appeal is Not the “Same Case” as NMA’s Prior Appeal.
As noted by the County, the “law of the case” doctrine “is a legal doctrine courts apply
when refusing to readdress an issue previously decided in the same case.” Smith v. Hruby-Mills,
2016 UT App 159, ¶ 15, 380 P. 3d 349 (emphasis added). What the County omits to state, or does
not appreciate, is that this appeal is not the same case as NMA’s previous appeal to this Court
(“NMA I”). In NMA I, this Court concluded that the Commission’s Amendment to Written
Decision dated December 8, 2015 (“Amended Decision”) was supported by substantial evidence,
but remanded the Amended Decision on due process grounds. See Memorandum of Decision on
the August 30, 2016 Hearing (“Memorandum Decision”), attached as Exhibit A.
4

NMA appealed this Court’s ruling to the Utah Court of Appeals, which dismissed the
appeal because “[a]lthough NMA preferred a different rationale, the end result was that the
amended order was vacated.” Order of Summary Dismissal, attached as Exhibit B, at 1 (emphasis
added). The Court of Appeals clarified that “the proceedings on remand will supercede [sic]
anything in this appeal, also making the matter moot.” Id. (emphasis added.) Since NMA I is now
moot, NMA is not precluded from attacking the Remand Decision with similar arguments as those
challenging the now-vacated Amended Decision.
In fact, if NMA did not raise all available arguments in this appeal of the Remand Decision,
it would be precluded from making any omitted arguments to an appellate court. See State v.
Johnson, 2017 UT 76, ¶ 15. While NMA preserved its arguments in its appeal of the Amended
Decision, an appellate court would likely find such preservation irrelevant to the current case –
which involves a different final land use decision. Thus, although the Court has previously ruled
on the validity of the Amended Decision, NMA is entitled to a ruling in this case on the validity
of the Remand Decision so it can reassert all available arguments on appeal if the Court against
NMA. Following the County’s rationale would deprive NMA of its right to appellate court review
of issues such as whether the Commission had the authority to render an “amended” decision.
B. Exceptional Circumstances Preclude Application of “Law of the Case” Doctrine.
Even if the law of the case doctrine applied, which it does not, “[t]here are three exceptional
circumstances in which the law of the case doctrine does not apply: (1) when there has been an
intervening change of controlling authority; (2) when new evidence has become available; or (3)
when the court is convinced that its prior decision was clearly erroneous and would work a

5

manifest injustice.” IHC Health Servs., Inc. v. D&K Mgmt., Inc., 2008 UT 73, ¶ 34, 196 P. 3d 588.
All three exceptions apply here.
1.

There has Been an Intervening Change of Controlling Authority.

Since this Court issued its Memorandum Decision, the Utah Supreme Court issued its
opinion in McElhaney v. City of Moab, 2017 UT 65, which significantly changed the way that
district courts and other appellate bodies, performing substantial evidence review, must review
land use decisions. Before McElhaney, district courts had broad discretion in determining whether
a land use decision was supported by substantial evidence. There were no statutes or caselaw
requiring remand of decisions lacking findings of fact and conclusions of law.
McElhaney changed this rubric, by requiring courts to remand land use authority decisions
that lack written findings back to the land use authority that should have, but failed, to create
written findings. In this case, neither the Planning Commission’s Revocation Decision nor the
Commission’s Remand Decision contain any express, written findings. Accordingly, this Court
must remand to the Planning Commission for findings of fact and conclusions of law, regardless
of what happened in NMA’s previous appeal.
2.

The County Has Refused to Consider New Evidence.

The Remand Decision affirms the Planning Commission’s unsupported conclusion that
sPower has, and is, complying with the conditions of the Amended CUP based on outdated and
one-sided evidence considered by the Planning Commission. (Remand Decision at 9, R1836.) The
County has refused to allow NMA to provide any new evidence of sPower’s non-compliance.
NMA was not allowed to participate at the revocation hearing and the Chair of the Planning
Commission expropriated materials NMA tried to present to the Planning Commission. (R0047:5-

6

15; R0087:1-3.) The Chair further refused to disseminate to other Planning Commission Members
questions emailed by NMA in advance of the September 14, 2015 hearing. (R0086:11-R0087:3.)
There is new evidence, including materials suppressed by the Chair of the Planning Commission.
The County has simply refused ever to hear or consider it.
3.

The Commission’s Failure to Remand the Revocation Decision Back to
the Planning Commission for Findings of Fact Was Clearly Erroneous.

In its Memorandum Decision, this Court remanded the Amended Decision to the County
Commission on due process grounds, finding that “NMA did not have the … opportunity to argue
its side of the case with regard to [the] evidence or to present its own evidence.” (Memorandum
Decision, 8 (emphasis added).) As an appeal authority, the Commission did not have the authority
to receive evidence. SAN JUAN COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE, § 6-4. Accordingly, the Commission
should have remanded the revocation issue back to the Planning Commission for a fair evidentiary
proceeding, with resulting findings of fact and conclusions of law. Instead, the Commission
decided to hear the matter on the one-sided record and disallowed any opportunity for NMA to
provide rebuttal evidence. This decision failed to comport with the Memorandum Decision, was
clearly erroneous and has resulted in manifest injustice.
II.

MCELHANEY REQUIRES THE PLANNING COMMISSION, AS A LAND USE AUTHORITY, AND
THE COMMISSION, AS A LAND USE APPEAL AUTHORITY, TO MAKE FINDINGS OF FACT
CAPABLE OF REVIEW ON APPEAL.
The County attempts to distinguish McElhaney, arguing that the opinion is so narrow it

covers only land use decisions to deny a conditional use permit, not decisions on revocation of a
conditional use permit. In the County’s view, the problem in McElhaney was that the reviewing
court had to “divine the city council’s reasoning for denying the permit from comments made
during the hearing.” (Opposition Memo at 9-10.) Ironically, the County fails to appreciate that the
7

original CUP, the Amended CUP, the Revocation Decision, and the Remand Decision in this
matter all share this same infirmity. Throughout proceedings before the Commission and this
Court, the parties and the Court have had to divine the conditions of the Amended CUP and the
basis for the Revocation Decision from hearing transcripts and minutes. The Planning Commission
never prepared written findings for any of its land use decisions.
The mandate in McElhaney is premised on a much broader principle than the County
acknowledges. The Supreme Court noted that without sufficiently detailed findings disclosing the
steps by which a land use authority reaches its ultimate conclusions, a reviewing authority cannot
properly review its decision. Id. ¶¶ 36-37. Thus, “if a city council is going to sit as an adjudicative
body, it needs to produce findings of fact capable of review on appeal.” Id. ¶ 41. This is a generally
applicable principle for all land use authorities, from which the County, the Commission, and the
Planning Commission are not exempt.
The County further asserts this appeal is dissimilar to McElhaney because “the issue here
is whether the planning commission based its decision not to revoke sPower’s extant CUP on
substantial evidence. … The only question is whether the evidence was substantial enough to
justify the County’s decision.” (Id. at 10.) This attempt to distinguish McElhaney is similarly
unpersuasive. Significantly, the only question before the court in McElhaney was also whether
there was substantial evidence in the record to justify the relevant land use authority’s decision, as
required by MLUDMA. McElhaney, 2017 UT 65, ¶ 31. The Supreme Court knew what evidence
had been presented to the city. Id. ¶¶ 4-6. What the Court didn’t have was “findings of fact capable
of review on appeal.” Id. ¶ 41. Accordingly, the absence of written findings of fact was lethal to
Moab City’s decision to deny the conditional use permit because “[b]y mandating that a reviewing
8

court must uphold a city council's decision as long as it is supported by substantial evidence, the
legislature has utilized a term of art that presupposes written findings.” Id. ¶ 41 (emphasis added).
In the present matter, this Court’s review of the Remand Decision (the Commission’s
review of the Planning Commission’s Revocation Decision) is based on the exact same term of art
– “substantial evidence” – which the Supreme Court held presupposes written findings. As in
McElhaney, there is a substantial record containing evidence allegedly presented to, and
considered by, the County. However, contrary to the County’s assertions, the Planning
Commission, as the land use authority, made no written findings – a fatal error.
That the Remand Decision came from a land use appeal authority and not directly from a
land use authority does not negate the principles articulated in McElhaney. While the Commission
was not acting as a fact-finder and was merely reviewing the Revocation Decision, the County has
still put this Court in a position of attempting to determine whether the Revocation Decision and
the Remand Decision are supported by “substantial evidence” without the aid of findings of fact
and conclusions of law capable of review on appeal. On remand, the Commission easily could and
should have remanded this matter to the Planning Commission with instructions to make the
required findings. Despite the urging of NMA, the Commission failed and refused to do so. Where
the Commission has upheld the Planning Commission’s unsupported Revocation Decision, the
County now asks the Court to revert to the pre-McElhaney world and divine the facts and reasoning
underlying both the land use authority’s decision and the appeal authority’s decision.
Perceiving this difficulty, the County now asserts that the Planning Commission did, in
fact, make “written findings and conclusions,” referring to the Planning Commission’s Written
Brief submitted to the Commission on November 5, 2015, as part of NMA’s prior appeal
9

proceedings. (Opposition Memo at 10; R0568-0581.) However, the Commission itself already
conceded, in the now-vacated Amended Decision, that the Planning Commission “did not make
any written findings from their revocation hearing.” (R0003) (emphasis added.)
Further, the County’s purported “written findings and conclusions” are insufficient for two
reasons. First, they are not part of the appealed decision. Instead, the Planning Commission’s
Written Brief was a post-hoc attempt to justify its decision retroactively, without making any
written findings regarding mitigation of the adverse effects of the Wind Facility on the NMA
Property. By the County’s logic, Moab City’s appeal brief justifying its decision would have been
sufficient for the McElhaney Court. It clearly was not.
Furthermore, the Planning Commission’s Written Brief did not actually contain any
findings of fact. The Written Brief states only that “the [Planning Commission] received studies
concerning sound, flicker, and light [and] [i]t received information on thresholds and how they
were determined and what neighboring lands were affected.” (R0571.) It then jumps straight to the
conclusion: “the [Planning Commission] decided by unanimous vote that as much mitigation as
possible had occurred under the conditions it set for the project in 2012.” (Id.)
There was no discussion about what the actual standards are, how the Planning
Commission determined those standards, what specifically sPower had done to mitigate sound,
flicker, and light impacts on the NMA Property pursuant to those standards, or what specific
evidence supported any of sPower’s assertions. 2 Thus, even after the Planning Commission

2

Throughout these proceedings, including in the Remand Decision and the County’s written
filings to this Court, the County has justified upholding the Revocation Decision based merely
on the assumption that sPower presented unspecified studies and reports to the Planning
Commission. But neither the Remand Decision, nor the Planning Commission’s decision the
Commission was reviewing, discuss or apply any specific content of those studies or reports.
10

submitted its Written Brief, the Commission had no way of knowing with any specificity what
findings were made by the Planning Commission and what substantial evidence supported the
supposed findings. The County’s valiant, but futile, effort to parse comments made in hearings and
its eleventh-hour attempt to transform the Planning Commission’s Written Brief into reviewable
findings of fact and conclusions of law does and must fail.
Perhaps more troubling, the Commission did nothing to correct these problems in the
Remand Decision now before this Court. The Remand Decision merely states that “[w]e cannot
say that the Planning Commission’s decision not to revoke the Latigo CUP lacked substantial
evidence.” (Remand Decision at 9; R1835.) The Commission’s scant analysis, which fails to
“disclose the steps by which” the Commission – or the Planning Commission – reached their
decisions, prevents this Court from “protecting the parties and the public from arbitrary and
capricious administrative action.” McElhaney, 2017 UT 65, ¶ 36.
Finally, the County’s contention that NMA has failed “to marshal the evidence supporting
the County’s finding” underscores the problems with the land use decision-making procedures
employed by the County. The Planning Commission never made any written findings or
conclusions respecting the conditions of the Amended CUP or supporting its Revocation Decision.
NMA has recited all the “findings” it could discern from both the Planning Commission and the
Commission and has presented and discussed the statements in the relevant decisions about
sPower’s purported mitigation. (Motion at 15-16.) It has also analyzed all the “evidence” presented
by sPower that NMA believed could possibly support sPower’s claims. (Motion at 16-19.) So, to

The County’s justification appears to be that because studies exist, sPower must be doing as
much mitigation as possible.
11

the extent NMA has failed to marshal the evidence supporting the County’s findings, it is only
because NMA – like the Court – has been left to divine what the County’s actual findings are and
what substantial evidence supports any such findings.
Moreover, given the limited participation NMA has been permitted throughout these
proceedings, NMA’s appeals have basically been confined to the record before the Planning
Commission, which is incomplete due to the preclusion of evidence from NMA. Additional
evidence NMA has attempted to bring before the Planning Commission and the Commission has
been disregarded as irrelevant or outside the scope of review. So, under the County’s theory, NMA
has a burden it can never satisfy. It must provide evidence to contradict sPower’s assertions
(Opposition Memo at 11), but it was not allowed to provide evidence in the one hearing where that
evidence could be meaningfully considered – the Planning Commission’s revocation hearing on
September 9, 2015. (Cross-Motion at 21).
III. NMA HAS A PROTECTABLE PROPERTY INTEREST.
The County next disputes NMA’s due process claim, contending that NMA had no
protectable property interest at stake in the Planning Commission’s revocation hearing. Despite
this Court’s prior affirmation in its Memorandum Decision of NMA’s due process rights, which
are necessarily based on a protectable property interest, the County asserts that NMA was
rightfully excluded from participating in the revocation hearing because there was only one right
at issue in that hearing – sPower’s right to the Amended CUP. (Cross-Motion at 21.) This is a
mistakenly narrow view of the competing property rights associated with a conditional use permit.
With any conditional use permit there are necessarily competing property rights. While a
CUP applicant has the right to use its property in the most economically beneficial manner, that
12

use may not injure the use and enjoyment of neighboring or adjacent property. As it must, the
County recognizes and acknowledges these competing property interests in its conditional use
permit ordinances. Under those ordinances, a conditional use permit can be granted only if the
proposed use “will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health,
safety or general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property
or improvements in the vicinity,” and the Planning Commission must “impose such requirements
and conditions as are necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public welfare.”
SAN JUAN COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE § 6-4 (emphases added).
It is undisputed that the conditions in each conditional use permit expressly protect the
adjacent properties, and the adjacent property owners accordingly have a property interest in
ensuring that those conditions are imposed and satisfied. The mechanism provided by the County
for ensuring compliance is a revocation hearing. SAN JUAN COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE § 6-10.
So, neighboring property owners negatively affected by a lack of compliance unquestionably have
a property interest at stake in such hearings – the unrestricted use and enjoyment of their property.
See United States v. James Daniel Good Real Prop., 510 U. S. 43, 54 (1993).
The County claims that NMA’s interests have been adequately protected in these
proceedings because NMA’s pre-hearing complaints “were among those that prompted the
planning commission to hold the revocation hearing, and it could have included whatever
statements and evidence it wished with those complaints.” (Cross-Motion at 21 (citation omitted).)
Of course, the County omits to state that the Planning Commission precluded NMA from
participating in the revocation hearing or providing any testimony or evidence. (R0568-0569.) A

13

useful analogy would be permitting a litigant file a complaint, but precluding the litigant from
presenting evidence or argument at trial.
The County’s argument is unavailing in any event, as neither the Remand Decision, nor
the Revocation Decision – such as it is – so much as alludes to any evidence presented in NMA’s
complaints. Due process requires “an opportunity to be heard in a meaningful manner.” Salt Lake
City Corp. v. Jordan River Restoration Network, 2012 UT 84, ¶ 111, 299 P. 3d 990 (emphasis
added). Such a hearing “must provide parties the opportunity to present ‘evidence, objections, and
arguments, to the end that the … court may be enabled to fairly and intelligently pass upon and
determine the questions presented for decision.’” Id. The Planning Commission received no
evidence or arguments from NMA at the September 9, 2015 revocation hearing. In fact, NMA
was not allowed to participate at the revocation hearing and the Planning Commission Chair
expropriated materials NMA intended to present at the revocation hearing. (R0047:5-15; R0087:13; R0568-0569.) The Chair further refused to disseminate to other Planning Commission Members
materials emailed by NMA in advance of the revocation hearing. (R0086:11-R0087:3.)
Further, the Commission failed – or refused – to consider the evidence presented by NMA
in its “Written arguments for the appeal of the San Juan County Planning Commission with
Respect to the Latigo Wind Park” dated November 5, 2015 (“2015 Appeal Brief”), and its nearly
200 pages of supporting documentation (R1629-1826) regarding Oregon standards for wind farms
(R1631-1632; R1653-1791), Oregon standards for wind turbine noise (R1631-1632; R1704),
relocation of the wind turbines (one of which was moved over a mile) (R1630, R1651); increased
Flicker, Sound and Ice Throw impacts on the NMA Property from relocated turbines (R1634;
R1805), increased Sound impacts based on turbine selection (R1631), and failure to implement
14

any meaningful light mitigation through “OCAS” or “Dark Sky” technology (R1633-1644). This
evidence fairly detracts from evidence presented by sPower, but was never addressed by the
Commission in either its Amended Decision or its Remand Decision.
The County effectively limited NMA to the record made by the Planning Commission at
its revocation hearing on September 9, 2015 – a hearing at which NMA was precluded from
presenting evidence, objections, and argument – and allowed sPower to augment the record by
letter dated September 23, 2015, after the Planning Commission had already made its Revocation
Decision. The County’s proceedings failed to afford NMA any fairness or due process.
IV. MATERIAL THE COUNTY CHARACTERIZES AS “EVIDENCE” DOES NOT SUPPORT SPOWER’S
CLAIMS OF MITIGATION.
In addition to its defense of its deficient land use decision-making procedure, the County
also presents what it characterizes as evidence supporting its determination that sPower’s complied
with the Amended CUP. This effort falls short. First, the County argues that NMA’s claims are
not based on flicker mitigation, but only on sound and light mitigation and on the self-imposed
financial mitigation and ice-throw mitigation conditions. (Opposition Memo at 11.) This assertion
is puzzling, since NMA’s Complaint makes multiple references to flicker and expressly refers to
sPower’s failure to provide flicker mitigation as part of several of its causes of action. (Complaint
¶¶ 27-34.) NMA was required only to give “fair notice of the nature and basis or grounds” of its
claims. See Canfield v. Layton City, 2005 UT 60, ¶ 14, 122 P.3d 622. NMA’s Complaint does so.
In any event, the record is clear that adverse flicker impacts on the NMA Property were
not even considered by sPower, since all parties expected that the NMA Property would be
incorporated into the Wind Facility. There is no evidence regarding flicker impacts on the NMA
Property, let alone “substantial evidence.”
15

To demonstrate sound mitigation, the County briefly refers to a “2015 sound study” as the
sole evidence supporting a determination that sPower mitigated sound impacts on the NMA
Property. (Cross-Motion at 15.)3 The County asserts that the “study” demonstrates that portions
of only one of the NMA Properties might experience noise greater than the 47-decibel residential
standard (Id.) However, there was no actual sound study performed in 2015. Instead, sPower’s
sound consultants provided only a letter dated July 28, 2015 (“Sound Letter”), in which the
consultants speculated that putting unspecified turbines with a hypothetical sound power level of
107.5 dBA (as high or higher than the Vestas turbines previously evaluated [R0589]) “would result
in nearly identical noise exposure.” (R0587.)
However, the July 28, 2015 Sound Letter is, ironically, silent regarding sound impacts on
the NMA Property. (R0587.) There is simply no way to determine from the Sound Letter what
noise levels are generated by the turbines sPower actually used or the sound impacts on the NMA
Property. What we do know, however, is that if the turbines are actually “nearly identical” to those
evaluated in the earlier sound study, NMA parcels L through T are all at or above 47 dBA, not just
one as the County now claims. (R0600.) This is not “substantial evidence” of sound mitigation. In
fact, this is evidence of unmitigated sound impacts on NMA Members’ Property.
Similarly, the “evidence” the County suggests sPower presented regarding light mitigation

3

The County seems to believe it must blindly accept sPower’s word for all industry standards
because “sPower asserts that there is no industry limit for noise on vacant agricultural land like
NMA’s [and] NMA presented no evidence suggesting otherwise.” (Cross-Motion at 15.)
However, NMA did present evidence regarding the Oregon Noise Standard for Wind Energy
Facilities with its 2015 Appeal Brief and 2016 Brief on Remand. (R1665; R2095-2096.) The
Commission simply disregarded it. Further, considering the County prohibited NMA’s
participation in the revocation hearing, and continues to allege this prohibition was proper, NMA
wonders when exactly the County suggests NMA should have presented such evidence.
16

consists only of unsupported, self-serving statements from sPower. The County does not point to
any evidence in the record that sPower did anything to mitigate adverse light effects on the NMA
Property. Instead, it asserts only that “sPower asserted that it had implemented a lighting plan . .
.” and that “sPower also explained that it worked with the FAA to get a lighting plan approved . .
..” (Cross-Motion at 15-16.) This is exactly the type of bald assertion the Commission originally
found to be lacking in its Initial Written Decision. (R0035-36.) Such unsupported, self-serving
claims are not “substantial evidence” supporting the Commission’s Remand Decision.
Finally, rather than attempting to show sPower complied with the self-imposed conditions
of the Amended CUP, the County now argues that those self-imposed conditions were never
actually approved by the Planning Commission as part of the Amended CUP. (Cross-Motion at 35.) However, the record plainly demonstrates that, not only were the self-imposed conditions
adopted, the Planning Commission also made them binding on subsequently owners of the Wind
Facility. (See R0803-0804; R0574; R1807-1809.) If the self-imposed conditions were not part of
the Amended CUP, why did both the Planning Commission, as the land use authority, and the
Commission, as the appeal authority, consider whether sPower satisfied the self-imposed
conditions when determining if sPower had complied with the Amended CUP? (See R0004;
R0021.) The simple answer is that the self-imposed conditions were, and are, part of the Amended
CUP and the County should be required to recognize and enforce them. It has not, and now
pretends they don’t exist.
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, the Court should grant NMA’s Motion for Summary Judgment
and deny the County’s Cross-Motion for Summary Judgment.
17

DATED this 8th day of December, 2017.
/s/ J. Craig Smith
J. Craig Smith
Jennie B. Garner
Aaron M. Worthen
SMITH HARTVIGSEN, PLLC
Attorneys for Plaintiffs/Petitioners

18

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on the 8th day of December, 2017, I caused a true and correct copy of
COMBINED REPLY MEMORANDUM SUPPORTING NMA’S MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND RESPONSE OPPOSING THE COUNTY’S CROSSMOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, via the Court’s electronic filing system, to the
following:
Barton H. Kunz II
CHRISTENSEN & JENSEN, P. C.
257 East 200 South, Suite 1100
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Telephone: (801) 323-5000
Facsimile: (801) 355-3472
bart.kunz@chrisjen.com
Attorneys for County Respondents and Defendants
Wade Budge
Paul W Shakespear
Elizabeth M. Brereton
SNELL & WILMER LLP
15 West South Temple, Suite 1200
Gateway Tower West
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
Telephone: 801. 257. 1900
Facsimile: 801. 257. 1800
wbudge@swlaw.com
pshakespear@swlaw.com
lbrereton@swlaw.com
Attorneys for Intervenors Sustainable Power Group, LLC and Latigo Wind Park, LLC
SMITH HARTVIGSEN, PLLC
/s/ Jay L. Springer
Jay L. Springer, Legal Assistant
Attorneys for Plaintiff / Petitioner

4816-5737-4039, v.7

19

