Barton H. Kunz II (USB# 08827)
GOEBEL ANDERSON PC
405 South Main Street, Suite 200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Telephone: (801) 441-9393
bkunz@gapclaw.com
Attorneys for County Respondents
SEVENTH DISTRICT COURT – MONTICELLO DEPARTMENT
SAN JUAN COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH
NORTHERN MONTICELLO ALLIANCE,
LLC,
Petitioner,

COUNTY’S REPLY IN SUPPORT OF ITS
CROSS-MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT

vs.
SAN JUAN COUNTY COMMISSION et al.,

Hearing Scheduled for
29 January 2017 at 2:00 p.m.

Respondents,
SUSTAINABLE POWER GROUP, LLC;
and LATIGO WIND PROJECT, LLC,

Case No. 170700006
Judge Lyle R. Anderson

Intervening Respondents.
Respondents San Juan County Commission and San Juan County (collectively
“County”), through counsel and under Utah Rules of Civil Procedure 7 and 56, hereby
reply to Northern Monticello Alliance, LLC’s (“NMA”) combined memorandum.
NEW MATTERS RAISED IN NMA’S MEMORANDUM AND REPLIES THERETO
NMA argues that the law of the case doctrine doesn’t apply because this petition
is not the same case as its previous petition (NMA v. San Juan County, case no.

160700001 (“NMA I”)) or, alternatively, that this petition falls within one of the
doctrine’s exceptions. But this petition is simply a second appeal from the same matter
before the county appeal authority, and none of the exceptions apply.
NMA also argues that the evidence the County relied upon in deciding not to
revoke sPower’s CUP was insufficient to meet the substantial evidence test. NMA,
however, fails to carry its burden in the face of sPower’s evidence.
Finally, NMA challenges the County’s decision as illegal, both because it allegedly
did not provide sufficient written findings for review, and because NMA’s due process
rights were purportedly violated. But the County provided sufficient findings, and NMA
lacks the due process rights it claims.
REPLY TO NMA’S RESPONSE TO STATEMENT OF FACTS1
NMA appears to imply that, because the Court’s review is limited to the record,
there can be no disputed facts, or perhaps that factual disputes are of no consequence.
(NMA’s Mem. at 1-22.) But, not only do the parties disagree about certain facts, they also
disagree about the inferences and conclusions to be drawn from the facts. Thus,
although “[t]he record is the record” (NMA’s Mem. at 1), that doesn’t mean there are no
disputed facts. NMA doesn’t object to any of the County’s statement of facts, and doesn’t
respond to the County’s evidentiary objections. NMA disputes only two paragraphs from
the County’s statement of facts:

1 Due to space limitations, the County

attaches verbatim recitations of the disputed
statements of fact and NMA’s responses as an addendum.
2 NMA’s pagination differs from the page numbers of its memorandum’s digital image.

The County herein cites to NMA’s pagination.
2

Paragraph 3: NMA asserts that the planning commission also approved what it calls
“self-imposed” conditions “presented by Wasatch Wind regarding industry standards,
monetary mitigation, and ice throw mitigation.” (NMA’s Mem. at 2-3.) But the record
citations NMA provides do not support that conclusion. The motion containing the
conditions that eventually passed appears at R0855. R0853 is pre-motion discussion.
The planning commission discusses amending the motion to include the self-imposed
conditions at R0856, but the amendment is discarded upon further discussion. (R085658.) Discussion on the motion continues at R0859-60, where the planning
commissioners consider whether the county commissioners might instruct them to get
county standards passed before approving permits. Ultimately, the question is called on
the motion appearing at R0855, which passes. Thus, Wasatch Wind’s self-imposed
conditions were not made part of the CUP.
NMA asserts that the planning commission chair’s statement after making her
motion that “we’re adding what they told us tonight, which are mostly mitigation issues”
(R0855) means that she intended to adopt Wasatch Wind’s self-imposed conditions
(NMA’s Mem. at 2), but that interpretation would contradict the motion she had just
made. That motion specifically mentioned flicker, light, and sound mitigation, but did
not mention Wasatch Wind’s proposed conditions.
Similarly unsupported is NMA’s assertion that the planning commission “further
determined to hold both Wasatch Wind” and its successors (i.e., sPower) “to the selfimposed mitigation standards.” (NMA’s Mem. at 2-3.) What NMA claims is a further
determination by the planning commission is actually a colloquy between the planning

3

commission chair and a Wasatch Wind representative that occurred well before the
motion setting the conditions was made. The chair asked the Wasatch Wind
representative whether its self-imposed mitigation plan would bind whomever
purchased the project, and the representative responded that, “[o]nce it’s in the permit,
it’s passed [on].” Although the representative asserted that Wasatch Wind would make
its self-imposed conditions binding on a successor in interest, the planning commission
never voted to make them part of the permit. (R0803-04.)
Paragraph 6: As sPower explained in its reply, the September 23 letter merely
summarizes the evidence it provided to the planning commission. (sPower’s Reply at 24;
R1960-61.) NMA has never objected to the letter’s inclusion in the record. The County
cited the letter for ease of reference, but, in reply to NMA’s response, now provides the
following more detailed findings and citations to primary sources in the record:
a.

Flicker
i.

A 2012 DNV KEMA flicker study based on assumed use of Vesta

turbines with a ninety-foot hub height found that two properties, a residence, and the
Discovery School might by impacted by flicker.
ii.

sPower changed turbine locations in order to decrease impacts on

nearby properties, and it chose to use GE turbines with an eighty-foot hub height.
iii.

sPower hired DNV KEMA to do an updated analysis accounting for

the changed locations and turbines. A 2015 report found that, at worst, flicker impact
would not exceed industry guidelines on any nearby properties.

4

iv.

There are no industry standards for limiting flicker on vacant

agricultural land like NMA’s. Even the Massachusetts and Oregon standards NMA
frequently cites do not have such standards.
(R1895-97, R1960-61, R1998-R2017.)
b.

Light
i.

sPower developed a lighting plan for its substation and operations

building in order to eliminate as much light as possible. The lights are not automatic
and are turned off at night. Wherever possible, the lights are pointed downward.
ii.

sPower worked with the Federal Aviation Administration to reduce

the number of safety lights on the turbines from all twenty-seven to just fourteen.
(R1898-99; R1960-61; R1965-68.)
c.

Sound
i.

A December 2013 sound study based on Vestas turbines found that

no adjacent property with existing residences or businesses exceeded sound standards.
Although there was no industry standard for undeveloped agricultural property,
Wasatch Wind sought to limit noise exposure to forty-nine decibels for such properties.
The report found that a part of one NMA property might exceed forty-seven decibels,
the limit for developed residential property.
ii.

In 2015, an updated study based on the GE turbines sPower decided

to use found that the impact would be a decibel less. One NMA property still might
experience sound above the forty-seven-decibel residential limit.
(R1899-R1901; R1960-61; R1965-96.)

5

ARGUMENT
I.

The County’s affirmance of the decision not to revoke sPower’s CUP
was not arbitrary or capricious. (Responding to pages 4-7 & 15-17)
A.

This case is a continuation of the appeal that spawned NMA I and is
subject to the law of the case doctrine. (Responding to pages 4-7)

This petition is akin to a second appeal taken from the same district court case
after remand from an appellate court. It seeks review from the same appeal NMA
brought to the county appeal authority that led to NMA I. Except for the appeal
authority’s decision on remand, everything else remains the same as in NMA I – the
parties, the planning commission decision, and the record (plus the briefing, argument,
and decision on sPower’s request for reconsideration). This petition is not a distinct case
from NMA I, but rather a second appeal brought in the same case.
In NMA I, the Court remanded this matter to the county appeal authority for
proceedings consistent with its decision (NMA I, Ruling & Am. J. (Nov. 17, 2016)), and
the court of appeals similarly recognized the Court’s remand to the appeal authority
(Order of Summ. Dismissal at 1 (Jan. 17, 2017)). The courts’ uses of the term remand
describe the case’s return to a lower tribunal for continued proceedings, procedurally
analogous to when a case is remanded from an appellate court to a district court.
Because a remanded case remains the same case after remand from an appeal, and
continues as the same case even on a second appeal, this petition is also a continuation
of NMA I, not a distinct case, and the law of the case doctrine applies.3

3 NMA’s argument that this petition is distinct because the appeal authority’s decision

was vacated (NMA’s Mem. at 5) mistakenly equates that decision with the case. Vacating
6

NMA sought to vacate the appeal authority’s amended decision in NMA I on
several grounds, including whether the decision was supported by substantial evidence.
NMA got the amended decision vacated as a violation of due process, but lost its
substantial evidence challenge. In the appeal authority’s decision on remand, it
recounted the case’s history and concluded that, in light of the record, it could not find
that the planning commission’s decision lacked substantial evidence. (R1832, R183536.) Since no additional evidence was received on remand (R1834), there is no reason
for the Court to reconsider or change its substantial evidence finding.
That does not, however, preclude NMA from raising a substantial evidence
challenge on an appeal from an adverse decision on this petition, as NMA contends.4
(NMA’s Mem. at 5.) The appeal authority’s decision on remand necessarily reconsiders
whether the planning commission’s decision not to revoke sPower’s CUP was supported
by substantial evidence – in light of sPower’s letter, with NMA’s input, and upon
reviewing the evidence submitted. (R1834-35.) The law of the case doctrine doesn’t
mean that the Court lacks jurisdiction to consider the issue, but rather that the Court,
having already conducted that review and concluded the decision was supported by
substantial evidence, need not do so again, and should not indulge NMA’s attempt to relitigate the issue. None of the three recognized exceptions applies:
the decision no more ended the case than would an appellate opinion vacating a district
court order and remanding the case to that court for further proceedings.
4 As addressed more fully below, NMA does not challenge the flicker condition on this

review. See infra, Pt. I.B. If it is correct that it could not raise an issue on appeal that it
failed to raise in this petition – even though the issue was addressed in NMA I – then, if
it prevailed in its argument on law of the case, it could not argue flicker on appeal.

7

i.

Controlling authority has not changed.

McElhaney v. City of Moab did not change controlling authority. (NMA’s Mem.
at 6.) The supreme court explained that the requirement that a land use authority
transmit a record of its proceedings to the reviewing court implied transmitting the
authority’s orders and findings. 2017 UT 65, ¶ 32, 848 Utah Adv. Rep. 38. Recognizing
an implied requirement isn’t a change in controlling authority. The supreme court also
noted that the court of appeals had, in several opinions, “require[d] land use authorities
to issue findings of fact when denying conditional use permits.” Id., ¶ 37. NMA’s
argument that McElhaney represents new law falls flat when considered against such
controlling precedent. Finally, the supreme court explained that substantial-evidence
review is “a term of art that presupposes written findings.” Id., ¶ 41. Requiring what a
statute presupposes is not new law.
ii.

There is no new evidence to consider.

NMA doesn’t identify any new evidence that became available after NMA I that
might warrant departing from the law of the case. Instead, NMA redeploys its due
process argument that it should have been allowed to participate in the revocation
hearing. (NMA’s Mem. at 6-7.) NMA’s argument fails for at least three reasons.
First, the County’s law of the case argument is based on the Court’s substantial
evidence determination in NMA I, not the revocation hearing. Since the new evidence
exception only applies when new evidence becomes available after the decision that
otherwise would form the law of the case, NMA doesn’t explain how its inability to
participate in the revocation hearing is relevant to the doctrine’s application here.

8

NMA’s bare declaration that “[t]here is new evidence” (NMA’s Mem. at 6) is
insufficient to reopen the substantial evidence question, particularly when the Court’s
review is limited to the evidentiary record before the appeal authority. And it is
especially insufficient when NMA is measuring the evidence’s newness against the
planning commission’s decision instead of the Court’s decision in NMA I.
Finally, as explained below, NMA never had a right to participate in the
revocation hearing, anyway. See infra, Pt. II.B.
iii.

The Court’s decision was not clearly erroneous.

Like its new evidence argument, NMA also mistakenly focuses on the County’s
decision, rather than the Court’s decision in NMA I, for its argument that the clearly
erroneous exception applies. (NMA’s Mem. at 7.) NMA’s argument that the County did
not follow the Court’s direction when it kept the matter on remand and held a hearing,
even if true, is irrelevant to whether the Court’s finding in NMA I was “in conflict with
the clear weight of the evidence” or whether it should have “a definite and firm
conviction that a mistake has been made.”5 Shuman v. Shuman, 2017 UT App 192, ¶ 14,
850 Utah Adv. Rep. 42 (quotation marks omitted). NMA points to no clear error in the
Court’s decision, nor any reason why the Court should consider its decision a mistake.

5 The County did in fact follow the Court’s direction, and NMA’s argument otherwise is

based on its selective quotation from the Court’s memorandum decision. The Court
found that, “[w]hile the County’s decision to reverse its earlier decision was based on
evidence properly before it, NMA did not have the same opportunity [as sPower] to
argue its side of the case with regard to that evidence or to present its own evidence.”
(NMA I, Mem. Dec. at 8 (Sept. 9, 2016).) The Court concluded that NMA should have
had the same opportunity as sPower to argue against reconsideration based on its own
selected evidence from the record. It was not calling for a de novo review.
9

B.

NMA doesn’t carry its burden to show that the County’s decision isn’t
supported by substantial evidence. (Responding to pages 15-17)

The only conditions at issue in this petition are sound and light. NMA references
a few paragraphs from its petition’s general allegations where it mentions flicker, but its
claims are detailed and very specific, and flicker is notably absent. (Pet., ¶¶ 140, 142(d),
150-51.) NMA’s allegations therefore did not give the County fair notice of a flicker
challenge, but rather the opposite. Even if NMA had adequately pleaded flicker as a
basis, its claims still would fail because NMA has not shown that sPower is not
complying with the condition. See supra, Reply to Stmt. of Facts, ¶ 6.
Far from a new argument (NMA’s Mem. at 17), the County has claimed since
NMA I that it did not make Wasatch Wind’s self-imposed conditions part of the CUP,
and the Court implicitly agreed. (NMA I, Mem. Dec. at 6 (Sept. 9, 2016).) The authority
NMA cites shows no different. See supra, Reply to Stmt. of Facts, ¶ 3. NMA’s citations to
the planning commission meeting minutes (R0574; R1807-09) do not show that the
transcribed motion setting forth the permit’s conditions (R0855) is mistaken, and
NMA’s citations to the appeal authority’s vacated order are inapposite because they
either show that the appeal authority did not consider the self-imposed conditions
binding (R0004) or reference the order’s dissent (R0021).
As for sPower’s sound mitigation, NMA’s reliance on Oregon’s standards (NMA’s
Mem. at 16 n. 3) is misplaced because there is no evidence that they represent industry
standards. NMA cites to nothing more than a map from the 2013 sound study to suggest
that certain of its parcels are “at or above” forty-seven decibels. (NMA’s Mem. at 16.) But
forty-seven is the limit for residential property, not vacant agricultural property, and

10

sPower presented the County with evidence that only one NMA property might exceed
the residential limit. See supra, Reply to Stmt. of Facts, ¶ 6.
NMA takes issue with sPower’s statements that it has implemented light
mitigation plans and negotiated fewer aircraft warning lights as “bald assertion[s]”
incapable of satisfying the substantial evidence standard. (NMA’s Mem. at 16-17.) But
they are more than a scintilla, and in the face of no admissible contradictory evidence
from NMA, satisfy the standard.
Finally, NMA cannot shelter behind the whole record test to argue that the
County did not consider evidence that fairly detracts from its decision (NMA’s Mem. at
14-15) when NMA has failed to supply even a rudimentary marshaling of the evidence
supporting the County’s decision. All that is required is that the appeal authority show
its decision was supported by substantial evidence, which it has done.
II.

The County’s decision on remand was legal. (Responding to pages 7-15)
NMA has apparently abandoned its argument that the appeal authority acted

illegally by reconsidering its decision on remand. It argues instead, relying on the
McElhaney opinion, that the County’s decision on remand was illegal because it did not
provide sufficient findings and reasoning to allow review. NMA also argues that the
appeal authority should have found that its due process rights were violated because it
wasn’t allowed to participate in sPower’s revocation hearing. The County addresses each
argument below.
A.

The written remand decision provides sufficient findings and reasoning to
permit review. (Responding to pages 7-12)

11

The findings needed to support a decision to deny a CUP, as in McElhaney, are
materially distinct from those needed to support a decision not to revoke a CUP, as here.
For the former, there must be findings explaining why the land use authority could not
devise conditions sufficient to mitigate the proposed use’s anticipated detrimental
effects. Utah Code § 17-27a-506(2)(b). For the latter, in contrast, the findings need only
state that the land use authority found that the record evidence showed the required
compliance. The Court need not re-create the bases for the decision or speculate
regarding what evidence the authority relied on – it is in the record and presents a
straightforward analysis.
Here, then, the question before the appeal authority was whether the evidence
sPower supplied to the planning commission was substantial enough for it to decide not
to revoke the CUP, i.e., whether the evidence was enough to “convince a reasonable
mind” that sPower was complying with the CUP’s conditions. Patterson v. Utah County
Bd. of Adj., 893 P.2d 602, 604 n. 6 (Utah Ct. App. 1995) (quotation marks omitted).
Specifically, the evidence sPower presented to the planning commission on light and
sound mitigation. This analysis requires nothing more than comparing the submitted
evidence against the CUP’s conditions; not the detailed findings NMA argues should
have been made, which McElhaney doesn’t require. (Compare NMA’s Mem. at 10-11
(listing various findings NMA contends the planning commission needed to make) with
McElhaney, 2017 UT 65, ¶¶ 41-42 (requiring only written “findings of fact capable of
review on appeal”).)

12

The substantial evidence standard applies to many different kinds of land use
decisions, and, like any standard of review, the showing the standard requires changes
with the elements of the claim being appealed. As the County stated in its principal
memorandum, here, “[t]he CUP’s conditions are known, as is the evidence provided”
(compare County’s Crossmot. at 10 with NMA’s Mem. at 8 (omitting the quoted
sentence)), but in McElhaney the reasons for the permit’s denial were not known.
McElhaney, 2017 UT 65, ¶¶ 29-30.
The decision presented for review is not the planning commission’s, but rather
the appeal authority’s determination, after reviewing the evidence presented to the
planning commission, that its decision was supported by substantial evidence that
sPower was complying with its CUP’s conditions. While the appeal authority’s findings
might be deficient if this were a CUP denial, it is enough for this straightforward review.
B.

NMA still fails to identify a due process right to participate in sPower’s
revocation hearing. (Responding to pages 12-15)

NMA fails to cite to a single authority supporting its proposition that landowners
have due process rights to be heard at an adjacent property owner’s CUP revocation
hearing; unsurprising, since an abstract right to use and enjoy one’s property (NMA’s
Mem. at 13) is not a certain benefit secured by an independent source like state law,
Petersen v. Riverton City, 2010 UT 58, ¶ 22, 243 P.3d 1261.
Recognizing such a right would lead to absurd results. If simply owning adjacent
property entitled a landowner to a due process right to participate in a permittee’s
revocation hearing, then it would follow that such an owner would likewise have a due
process right to be heard on its complaint that a permittee’s noncompliance was

13

harming its property rights. The underlying alleged protectable property interest would
be the same (the enjoyment of one’s property), and a county’s determination not to
investigate the landowner’s complaint or to convene a hearing would likewise violate the
landowner’s hypothetical due process rights. Simply by alleging a permittee’s
noncompliance, therefore, any adjacent landowner could compel a governmental entity
to convene a revocation hearing in which the landowner could participate. A
landowner’s noncompliance complaint would thus obviate a governmental entity’s
discretionary authority to decide whether to investigate and hold a revocation hearing in
the first place, effectively transforming noncompliance complaints into weapons when
wielded by disgruntled adjacent landowners. This cannot be the law, and NMA presents
no authority that it is.
NMA is essentially trying to claim a property interest in an adjacent permittee’s
compliance with its permit conditions. Recognizing such a property interest would be no
different than recognizing a property interest in an adjacent property owner’s
compliance with an ordinance. A landowner may complain and demand that a county
investigate and enforce its ordinance against its neighbor, but it is ultimately within a
county’s discretion to determine whether an enforcement action or even prosecution is
warranted. See State v. Mohi, 901 P.2d 991, 1011 (Utah 1995) (“[T]he determination of
the appropriate charge with its applicable sanctions is the sort of matter that has
traditionally been left to the prosecutor’s discretion.”). NMA’s analogy to filing suit but
being prohibited from presenting evidence and argument (NMA’s Mem. at 13-14) is
therefore inapt. A more fitting analogy would be a landowner complaining to the county

14

that its property was being harmed by a neighbor’s allegedly illegal activity, and the
county deciding that an enforcement action wasn’t warranted. If NMA wished, it could
bring direct action against sPower, but for reasons only it knows, it has not.
Although NMA references the record citations where the planning commission
chair allegedly collected “all but one” of the documents NMA was distributing at the
revocation hearing (NMA’s Mem. at 14; R0047:10-146), it still fails to identify what those
documents were and whether it was evidence that NMA could not have included with its
initial complaint to the county.
That the Court held in NMA I that the County violated NMA’s due process rights
by not giving it an opportunity to respond to sPower’s request for reconsideration (NMA
I, Mem. Dec. at 7-8 (Sept. 9, 2016)) is irrelevant to the distinct question whether NMA
had a due process right to participate in sPower’s revocation hearing. San Juan County
Code § 2-2(2) broadly allows “any person affected by a land use authority’s decision” to
appeal that decision to the county appeal authority. That right to appeal from the
planning commission’s decision, however, does not provide for NMA’s participation in
the revocation hearing. NMA’s reliance on the Court’s ruling in NMA I is therefore
misplaced, and its citation to the county’s ordinance governing CUP applications (not
revocations) is inapposite. (NMA’s Mem. at 12-13.)
CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, judgment affirming the appeal authority is warranted.

6 It appears from the transcript that NMA knew before the revocation hearing that it

would not be participating because it was emailing questions it wanted the planning
commission to ask at the hearing. (R0086:12-15.)
15

DATE: 2 January 2018.
GOEBEL ANDERSON PC
/s/Barton H. Kunz II
Barton H. Kunz II
Attorneys for County Respondents
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that I caused a true and correct copy of the foregoing reply
memorandum to be served upon the following by an electronic filing service on 2
January 2018:
For petitioner:
J. Craig Smith, jcsmith@shutah.law
Jennie B. Garner, jgarner@shutah.law
Aaron M. Worthen, aworthen@shutah.law
For intervening respondents:
Paul W. Shakespear, pshakespear@swlaw.com
Elizabeth M. Brereton, lbrereton@swlaw.com
/s/Barton H. Kunz II
Barton H. Kunz II
Attorney for County Respondents

16

ADDENDUM
Paragraph 3:
County’s allegation: As amended by the planning commission, the following conditions
were added to the CUP:
[I]ncorporate as much flicker, light, sound[] mitigation as possible, and to
meet all industry standards of those challenges, . . . and reiterating that all
and any new land purchase lease deals be in writing for any contiguous
and affected landowners. . . . [A]ny mitigation and standards and
conditions of this CUP must be met by any and all project development
people, be they owners now or in the future, and all of these be met at the
time of building permit issuance.
(R0568, R057-71, R0855, R0860-61.)
NMA’s response: While the County cites to the transcript of the October 4, 2012, hearing
where the amended conditional use permit (“Amended CUP”), issued to Wasatch Wind,
sPower’s predecessor-in-interest, was approved, it fails to provide a complete picture of
all of the conditions, imposed by the San Juan County Planning Commission (“Planning
Commission”), on the CUP 1at that meeting.7
In amending the CUP, the Planning Commission approved “voluntary standards”
and “self-imposed” conditions presented by Wasatch Wind regarding industry
standards, monetary mitigation, and ice throw mitigation, in addition to those imposed
at the time of the original CUP. (R0853, R0855-0856, R0859-0860.) As stated by
Marcia Hadenfeldt, the Chair of the Planning Commission and the moving member, “we
already gave them a CUP, we’re adding what [Wasatch Wind] told us tonight,
which are mostly mitigation issues.” (R0855 (emphasis added).) The Planning
Commission further determined to hold both Wasatch Wind, as well as its successors in
interest, to the self-imposed mitigation standards proposed by Wasatch Wind. (R08030804.)
County’s reply: NMA asserts that the planning commission also approved what it calls
“self-imposed” conditions “presented by Wasatch Wind regarding industry standards,
monetary mitigation, and ice throw mitigation.” (NMA’s Mem. at 2-3.) But the record
citations NMA provides do not support that conclusion. The motion containing the
conditions that eventually passed appears at R0855. R0853 is pre-motion discussion.
The planning commission discusses amending the motion to include the self-imposed
7 The Planning Commission failed to make any written findings or

create a written
record of the conditions upon which either the original or Amended CUP was issued.
Thus, the conditions must be gleaned from the minutes and transcript of the October 4,
2012, meeting of the Planning Commission in which the Amended CUP was acted upon.
A-1

conditions at R0856, but the amendment is discarded upon further discussion. (R085658.) Discussion on the motion continues at R0859-60, where the planning
commissioners consider whether the county commissioners might instruct them to get
county standards passed before approving permits. Ultimately, the question is called on
the motion appearing at R0855, which passes. Thus, Wasatch Wind’s self-imposed
conditions were not made part of the CUP.
NMA asserts that the planning commission chair’s statement after making her
motion that “we’re adding what they told us tonight, which are mostly mitigation issues”
(R0855) means that she intended to adopt Wasatch Wind’s self-imposed conditions
(NMA’s Mem. at 2), but that interpretation would contradict the motion she had just
made. That motion specifically mentioned flicker, light, and sound mitigation, but did
not mention Wasatch Wind’s proposed conditions.
Similarly unsupported is NMA’s assertion that the planning commission “further
determined to hold both Wasatch Wind” and its successors (i.e., sPower) “to the selfimposed mitigation standards.” (NMA’s Mem. at 2-3.) What NMA claims is a further
determination by the planning commission is actually a colloquy between the planning
commission chair and a Wasatch Wind representative that occurred well before the
motion setting the conditions was made. The chair asked the Wasatch Wind
representative whether its self-imposed mitigation plan would bind whomever
purchased the project, and the representative responded that, “[o]nce it’s in the permit,
it’s passed [on].” Although the representative asserted that Wasatch Wind would make
its self-imposed conditions binding on a successor in interest, the planning commission
never voted to make them part of the permit. (R0803-04.)
Paragraph 6:
County’s allegation: sPower provided the county evidence of its mitigation efforts,
including the following related to flicker, light, and sound:
a.

b.

Flicker
i.

sPower decided against turbines from Siemens and Vestas in favor
of a new turbine manufactured by GE that had a shorter hub height
that reduced the amount of flicker because it casts a smaller
shadow. (R1606.)

ii.

In the expected scenario, none of the eleven receptors sPower tested
exceeded the baseline industry standard of flicker exposure not
exceeding thirty minutes a day for more than thirty hours a year.
According to industry standards, there is no flicker threshold to be
met for undeveloped land like the NMA properties. (R1607-08.)

Light

A-2

c.

i.

sPower worked with the FAA to reduce the number of turbines
required to have navigation lights from twenty-seven to fourteen.
(R1608-09.)

ii.

sPower also developed a lighting plan for its substation and
operations building that eliminated lighting at night unless they are
in use. Downward facing lights are used wherever possible.
(R1609.)

Sound
i.

sPower decided against turbines from Siemens and Vestas in favor
of a new turbine manufactured by GE that runs quieter than the
Vestas model. (R1606.)

ii.

sPower conducted sound studies to confirm that, through its
placement of turbines and selection of a quieter turbine, the wind
park met all sound limits for existing residences and businesses.
There is no industry sound standard for vacant agricultural land,
and a 2015 sound study based on the quieter GE turbines sPower
selected found that one NMA member’s parcel might experience
noise higher than 47 decibels, the accepted limit for residential
property. (R1899-R1901.)

NMA’s response: The County is citing bare assertions made by sPower in a letter dated
September 23, 2015 – after the Planning Commission had already made its decision
not to revoke the Amended CUP on September 14, 2015 (the “Revocation Decision”).
(R1605-1611.) The County cites no evidence that the Planning Commission ever
considered the September 23, 2015 letter, or that the Planning Commission ever
reviewed any independent authority or studies supporting sPower’s assertions in the
September 23, 2015 letter.
Further, sPower’s Updated Shadow Flicker Impact Assessment dated August 21,
2015, did not even utilize data from receptors L-W located in the NMA Property, which
had been used in the initial Shadow Flicker Impact Assessment dated September 28,
2012, because “the Project [had] the option to purchase this land once the wind farm is
built” and the plan was that “these lands [would] become part of the Project once the
wind farm is operational.” (R0613, R0619.)
County’s reply: As sPower explained in its reply, the September 23 letter merely
summarizes the evidence it provided to the planning commission. (sPower’s Reply at 24;
R1960-61.) NMA has never objected to the letter’s inclusion in the record. The County
cited the letter for ease of reference, but, in reply to NMA’s response, now provides the
following more detailed findings and citations to primary sources in the record:

A-3

a.

Flicker

i.
A 2012 DNV KEMA flicker study based on assumed use of Vesta
turbines with a ninety-foot hub height found that two properties, a residence, and the
Discovery School might by impacted by flicker.
ii.
sPower changed turbine locations in order to decrease impacts on
nearby properties, and it chose to use GE turbines with an eighty-foot hub height.
iii.
sPower hired DNV KEMA to do an updated analysis accounting for
the changed locations and turbines. A 2015 report found that, at worst, flicker impact
would not exceed industry guidelines on any nearby properties.
iv.
There are no industry standards for limiting flicker on vacant
agricultural land like NMA’s. Even the Massachusetts and Oregon standards NMA
frequently cites do not have such standards.
(R1895-97, R1960-61, R1998-R2017.)
b.

Light

i.
sPower developed a lighting plan for its substation and operations
building in order to eliminate as much light as possible. The lights are not automatic
and are turned off at night. Wherever possible, the lights are pointed downward.
ii.
sPower worked with the Federal Aviation Administration to reduce
the number of safety lights on the turbines from all twenty-seven to just fourteen.
(R1898-99; R1960-61; R1965-68.)
c.

Sound

i.
A December 2013 sound study based on Vestas turbines found that
no adjacent property with existing residences or businesses exceeded sound standards.
Although there was no industry standard for undeveloped agricultural property,
Wasatch Wind sought to limit noise exposure to forty-nine decibels for such properties.
The report found that a part of one NMA property might exceed forty-seven decibels,
the limit for developed residential property.
ii.
In 2015, an updated study based on the GE turbines sPower decided
to use found that the impact would be a decibel less. One NMA property still might
experience sound above the forty-seven-decibel residential limit.
(R1899-R1901; R1960-61; R1965-96.)

A-4

