FILED
MARCH 20 2022
March 20, 2022

SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

To: Board of Oil, Gas and Mining and the Utah Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining,
Re: Tree Farm LLC proposed quarry to be located in Parleys Canyon
Dear Division and Board,
I am writing in consideration to Tree Farm’s request to withdraw its SMO and LMO NOIs, and the
anticipated future SMO NOI filing.
Some quick points:
1. The “Motion for Policy Guidance” issue should be resolved before DOGM moves forward on
Tree Farm’s anticipated SMO NOI.
2. State code provides extensive discretion to the Board and DOGM to examine the broader issues
surrounding a SMO NOI, namely to determine whether the negative public health and safety
impacts can be avoided or truly mitigated. The Board and DOGM will be remiss if it fails in these
exceedingly important tasks.
3. Everyone -- the public, the Board, DOGM, local governments and the news media -- is well
aware that Tree Farm’s unambiguous plan is to quarry / mine a huge swath of Parleys Canyon –
over 600 acres. The expected SMO NOI is a legalistic attempt at a work-around by Tree Farm to
short circuit and minimize the regulatory process.
A 600-acre quarry in Parley’s Canyon will permanently alter Parleys Canyon, an important gateway to
the Salt Lake Valley. If approved, the mine / quarry will result in visual and aesthetic damage that cannot
be undone. “Reclamation” cannot even remotely erase the scars of the planned multi-generational
quarry – up to 100 years. Leaving aside the aesthetic impacts, the reduction in the property value of the
surrounding properties will be immediate and devastating (I am not one of those property owners).
Millcreek residents will have to absorb additional wind-born dust and the negative health impacts with
no legal recourse (I am a Millcreek resident). The entire State of Utah will be saddled with a permanent
and entirely avoidable scar to Salt Lake Valley’s most important and scenic gateway.
In summary, DOGM and the Board should move forward in a cautious and deliberative manner.
Sincerely yours,
Tom Stephens
4408 South Adonis Drive
Millcreek, Utah 84124

