JODY K BURNETT (0499)
ROBERT C. KELLER (4861)
SNOW CHRISTENSEN & MARTINEAU
10 Exchange Place, 11th Floor
P. O. Box 45000
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Phone: 801-521-9000
Facsimile: 801-363-0400
jkb@scmlaw.com
rck@scmlaw.com
Attorneys for Defendant Intervenors the Utah School and
Institutional Trust Lands Administration and LB Moab Land
Company, LLC

IN THE SEVENTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT IN AND FOR
GRAND COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

LUCY WALLINGFORD, KILEY MILLER,
JOHN RZECZYCKI, CAROL MAYER,
DAVID BODNER, MEECHE BODNER,
SARAH STOCK, JOSEPHINE KOVASH,
individuals, LIVING RIVERS, a nonprofit
corporation,
Plaintiffs

INTERVENOR DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

Civil No. 170700009

v.

Judge Lyle R. Anderson

MOAB CITY, MOAB CITY COUNCIL,
Defendants and
THE UTAH SCHOOL AND
INSTITUTIONAL TRUST LANDS
ADMINISTRATION and LB MOAB LAND
COMPANY LLC,
Intervenor Defendants.

1

CONCISE STATEMENT OF RELIEF REQUESTED AND GROUNDS
Pursuant to Utah R. Civ. P. 56 and Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-801, Intervenor-Defendants
Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration (“SITLA”) and LB Moab Land
Company, LLC (“LB Moab”) (collectively the “Intervenors”) request that the Court grant
summary judgment dismissing Plaintiffs’ Amended Complaint and Petition for Review.1
The Lionsback Resort is a hotel/condominium project located on state school trust lands
leased by LB Moab from SITLA. The Lionsback project was originally entitled by the City in
2008. See R737. After unsuccessful litigation brought by the Moab Local Green Party delayed
the project for over four years, LB Moab approached the City in 2013 and proposed modifications
to the site plan. See id. 738.
After meetings with City Manager Donna Metzler and city staff, staff informed LB Moab
in writing in April 2014 that the proposed modifications were acceptable, and LB Moab invested
significant funds in design and engineering to move the project towards construction. See R 450451, 738. Unfortunately for all involved, a new City Manager changed the City’s position,
determining that the 2014 project go-ahead from City staff was not valid. See id. 828-829.
The City instead informed LB Moab in summer 2016 that it would be required to resubmit
the revised project for public hearings and discretionary approvals by both the city planning

1

Section 10-9a-801 requires that the City transmit the record of its proceedings to the District
Court for its review, and limits review to that record. See Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-801(7)(a),
(8)(a). The City has compiled and paginated the record with Bates numbers R1 through R858,
and has provided copies of the record to all counsel appearing in this action. Intervenors
understand the City is in the process of filing the record with the Court as the statute requires,
and in the meantime Intervenors have compiled and file herewith an Appendix containing the
record documents it relies upon for this motion, including the specific portions of the record that
are cited in this memorandum.
2

commission and the city council. See R739. At the same time, local contacts informed LB Moab
that the new City Manager intended to kill the project if possible. See id. 736.
Faced with what it perceived were hostile and inconsistent actions by the City, SITLA
informed the City that it intended to withdraw the Lionsback project from City zoning jurisdiction,
and proceed to develop the project under applicable state law, which exempts state trust lands from
local zoning, and provides an alternate pathway for permitting and development. See R847-849.
The parties came to view the underlying dispute, as well as the statutory exemption issues, as ripe
for difficult litigation, and felt that a cooperative resolution of the dispute through settlement to be
preferable. See id. 816.
Subsequently, SITLA and the City entered negotiations which led – as a settlement of their
dispute over the appropriate path forward for approval of the revisions – to a settlement document
entitled “Zoning Status Agreement” (the “ZSA”). See R850-857. The ZSA acknowledges that
there were disputes over applicable facts and law, and implements a negotiated process for
resolving them. Id..
Pursuant to the agreement, SITLA reversed its decision to withdraw from local zoning, and
the LB Moab made negotiated concessions to the City on other issues. In return, the City agreed
to process the project revisions as a minor plan amendment, consistent with the City’s April 2014
communication to LB Moab. Id. Other than this procedural concession, the ZSA maintains all
substantive requirements of existing zoning ordinances and approvals for the project. Id.
Thus this case involves a settlement agreement between the City, SITLA and LB Moab
concerning how the City would process a plan amendment for the Lionsback Resort. Plaintiffs
claim that the agreement is inconsistent with City ordinances, and therefore arbitrary, capricious
3

and illegal. But Plaintiffs’ challenge to the agreement misses a key legal point – it is a settlement
agreement resolving disputes over multiple issues, including the City’s authority over zoningexempt state trust lands.
Municipalities have the inherent power to compromise disputed claims, and Utah law
specifically encourages the settlement of disputes. In reviewing such settlements, courts do not
inquire into the precise legal rights of the parties, but merely ascertain that the settlement is fair
and reasonable. The City’s decision to enter the ZSA is fully legal, entitled to substantial deference
by the Court, and neither arbitrary nor capricious under the circumstances. It can and should be
upheld as a matter of law.
STATEMENT OF UNDISPUTED MATERIAL FACTS DERIVED FROM THE
RECORD WITH APPROPRIATE CITATIONS
Introduction
By law, this is an appeal on the record below only. See Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-801(8)(a).
The Court will note that the facts and the record itself are not “undisputed” in the traditional sense
because the parties will suggest that the Court draw sometimes diametrical different inferences
and conclusions from the proceedings below.
In contrast to a more traditional summary judgment analysis, however, the Court’s task
here is not to determine whether the facts reflected by the record are undisputed, but only whether
it demonstrates a sufficient quantum of evidence that the decision by the City was not arbitrary,
capricious or illegal under the appropriate standards of review:
In reviewing the Board’s decision, it is not this court’s role to re-weigh the evidence and
determine if the outcome was correct. Rather, we are charged with determining whether
there was substantial evidence supporting the Board’s decision, and whether such evidence
is adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support such conclusion.
4

Carr v. Dep’t of Workforce Services, 2011 UT App 33, ¶ 4 (citation omitted). See also Pen &
Ink v. Alpine City, 2010 UT App 203, ¶ 14 (“On appeal, we typically review the district court’s
assessment of whether a genuine issue of material fact required a trial. However, when the
district court reviews a land use authority’s decision, the scope of its review is curtailed by Utah
Code section 10-9a-801(8).”).
Background
1.

The State of Utah, through SITLA, is the owner of the real property located in

Grand County, Utah, that is the subject of this case (the “Subject Property”). See R1. In June,
2006, the Intervenors entered into a Lease and Development Agreement which allowed LB Moab
to develop and construct a Mixed Use Master Planned Development (“MPD”) for the Lionsback
Resort (the “Project”) on the Subject Property. See id. 1-2.
2.

In October, 2008, the City and LB Moab, joined by SITLA, entered into a Pre-

Annexation Agreement to annex the Subject Property into the City. See R1-23. The Agreement
addressed the parties’ development rights and obligations, including the annexation process, land
use and planning processes, subdivision improvements, water and sanitary sewer services, utilities
and roads, as well as drinking water source protections. Id. The agreement was accompanied by
a detailed preliminary Master Planned Development (“MDP”) plan. Id.
3.

Following annexation the City and LB Moab entered a Development and Phasing

Agreement dated July 28, 2009. See R386. This agreement authorized development of 188 single
family lots, 18 employee units, and 50 Lodge/Commercial Lots/Units. See id. 310, 391.
4.

The Moab Local Green Party, current plaintiff Living Rivers, and several

individuals sued the City in October, 2008 challenging the City’s annexation and preliminary MDP
5

Plan for the Project. See R. 295. The District Court upheld the City’s decision, the Utah Court of
Appeals affirmed the District Court’s decision, and on October 2, 2012, the Utah Supreme Court
denied the plaintiffs’ petition for certiorari. See Moab Local Green Party et al v. Moab City, 2012
UT App 113, 276 P. 3d 1230 (Utah App. 2012), cert. den. 288 P. 3d 1045 (Utah 2012).
Updates to the Project Concept
5.

After completion of the Moab Local Green Party litigation, LB Moab and SITLA

began discussions with the City in 2013 about more detailed planning and engineering for the
project. See R311, 738. Based on updated market analysis, LB Moab presented a somewhat
revised concept for the project to City staff and the City mayor in September and October, 2013.
See id. 310-312. The proposed revision consolidated the hotel units in one building (instead of nine
separate buildings), and moved the parking lot to the rear of the hotel instead of placing it in front
of the development. Id.
6.

At the time of the September 2013 meeting, City staff indicated that the proposed

revisions would be considered a minor amendment to the existing preliminary MPD plan, and
could be approved by staff. See R311.
7.

One aspect of the proposed revisions was the design of the lodge/condominium

units as three bedroom condominiums with “lockout” doors allowing individual bedrooms that
could be rented separately. See R710-712. In light of this, the City and LB Moab identified
ambiguities in the original hotel approvals. See id. 479.
8.

The body of the Development and Phasing Agreement describes “50

Lodge/Commercial Lots/Units.” See R391. See also id. 822 (Sketch depicting “Condo 2 Bedroom
Hotel Suites”). In the “Phasing Table (Exhibit C) of the same agreement, the Hotel units are

6

described as “Hotel Facilities (50 Hotel Rooms . . .”). See id. 403. Conversely, the Subdivision
Improvements Schedule (Exhibit E) states that 50 Hotel Guest Condominium Units will be
constructed with the Hotel and will be available for sale to third party purchasers. See id. 406.
Sketch plans submitted at the time of the initial development proposals for the hotel contemplate
the multi-bedroom lockout concept. See id. 422.
9.

On April 2, 2014, the City’s Planning Director, Jeff Reinhart, sent LB Moab a

confirmatory email indicating that he had spoken with City Manager Donna Metzler and that the
three-bedroom lockoff concept for the hotel condominium units was acceptable. See R451. The
full text of the April 2, 2014, email from the City to LB Moab is as follows.
Hello Mike,
I spoke with Donna [Metzler] about the hotel use and we cannot identify
any issues with how the hotel units or rooms are owned. Whether or not the
hotel units are sold as individual condos in the future is an option you can
pursue, or not at your discretion. The density or number of proposed units
is the important thing for us and not the way the units are owned. It is our
understanding that your current plan is for 50 hotel units which will each
have three bedrooms. Each bedroom will be treated as a hotel lock off room
like you have done at the Gonzo Inn so there will be a total of 150 hotel
rooms. If you need more than this email, please let me know.
Id. (emphasis added).
10.

In reliance upon the series of favorable discussions and communications with the

City about the design update, LB Moab invested approximately $500,000 in updated architectural
and engineering as it prepared to complete financing and move toward construction of the project.
See R735-736.

7

Dispute Between City and Intervenors.
11.

In summer 2015, LB Moab began to hear rumors that the new Moab City Manager,

Rebecca Davidson, opposed the Lionsback project and intended to stop the development. See
R736. SITLA sent a letter to Ms. Davidson on November 23, 2015, requesting confirmation of
the City’s position on project entitlements, agreements, and status. See id. 452-454. SITLA never
received a written response to this correspondence. Id. 739.
12.

On April 6, 2016, outside legal counsel for the City sent a letter to legal counsel for

LB Moab memorializing a meeting held by the parties on March 14, 2016. See R458-459. The
letter stated “At that meeting all parties acknowledged that there are ambiguities in the
Development Agreement.” Id. The City’s counsel further stated the City’s position that LB Moab
could not reasonably rely on past statements made by City staff with respect to the design of the
hotel, and that LB Moab should submit an application to the City for approval of the hotel
modification in accordance with Moab’s Master Planned Development Ordinance, Chapter 17.65
of the Moab Municipal Code. Id.
13.

In response, on June 30, 2016, LB Moab filed an Amended Preliminary Site Plan

with the City together with an application to amend its approved preliminary master planned
development. See R470-509. SITLA joined in this application. See id. 483. The application
noted the City’s prior approval of the revised hotel configuration, together with the City attorney’s
more recent statement that the prior staff approval could not be relied upon. See id. 479. The
application expressly reserved all rights and claims with regard to the matter. Id.
14.

On August 11, 2016, LB Moab and SITLA met with the Moab Mayor and City

Manager to discuss the processing of the amendment application. See R533-535. SITLA and LB
8

Moab understood that the Mayor and City Manager committed at this meeting that the amendment
application would be processed by the City as a minor plan amendment under applicable
provisions of the Moab Municipal Code. Id.
15.

On September 12, 2016, legal counsel for the City wrote a letter to legal counsel

for LB Moab disavowing the position LB Moab and SITLA thought the Mayor and City Manager
had taken in the August 11, 2016, meeting, and concluding that the amendment application would
have to be processed as a major plan amendment under MMC 17.65.130. See R538-539. During
this time period, City staff made several requests for documents and reports that went beyond any
matters being considered under the amendment application, giving the impression to the
development parties that all entitlements for the project were in question. See id. 739.
SITLA Determines to Pull Project from Local Zoning
16.

Based on its perception that the City was backtracking on commitments made to

LB Moab with respect to the hotel configuration, and the processing of any required change as a
minor amendment, SITLA informed legal counsel for the City by telephone on October 13, 2016,
that it intended to pull the project from municipal jurisdiction if the outstanding issues could not
be addressed, with a follow-up email communication on October 25, 2016. See R552-553. The
parties contemporaneously discussed a compromise of the dispute that acknowledged SITLA’s
statutory exemption from local zoning, but represented a compromise of the underlying issues.
See id. 553.
The Zoning Status Agreement
17.

The compromise of the outstanding dispute was set forth in a draft document called

the Zoning Status Agreement. See R556-561. The draft Zoning Status Agreement was negotiated
9

back and forth by the parties over a period of weeks in October and November 2016. See id. 562574. The City’s responsive draft of the Zoning Status Agreement contained multiple negotiated
changes to the original draft SITLA had presented to the City that substantially bettered the City’s
position compared to the status quo. Id; see also R592-596, R607-609, R786.
18.

Recitals M and N of the revised Zoning Status Agreement acknowledged SITLA’s

position that it has the right and authority to withdraw its consent to local planning and zoning
jurisdiction pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 10-9a-304, and further acknowledged the existence of a
potential legal dispute between SITLA and the City with respect to the scope of SITLA’s zoning
exemption. See R576.
Approval of the Zoning Status Agreement by the City Council
19.

The proposed Zoning Status Agreement was first presented to the Moab City

Council for approval on December 13, 2016. See R779-791. After a lengthy public discussion,
the Council tabled approval until January, 2017. Id.
20.

On February 1, 2017, the City Council held a special public workshop meeting to

discuss the Lionsback development and the proposed Zoning Status Agreement. See R792-816.
This meeting included opportunity for public comment, which was received by the Council. See
id. 792-795. The Council considered the ZSA again on February 14, 2017 (see R817-833), and
again on February 28, 2017, at which time the Council approved the Zoning Status Agreement by
a 3-2 vote. See id. 834-845.
21.

The City Council’s consideration of the Zoning Status Agreement included, but

was not limited to, consideration of alternate legal means by which SITLA and LB Moab could
develop the project outside of City jurisdiction (see R829, 849); the prior commitments of the City
10

to approve the hotel configuration or process the change as a minor amendment (id. 813-816, 827828); ambiguities in the prior agreements as to the number of hotel units already permitted (id.
814-815); the fact that the City Code allows City staff to decide which amendments are minor (id.
815, R828); the developer’s expenditure of funds in reliance on the City’s representations (id. 814,
847-848); the overall timeline of the project (id. 734-741); and additional substantive commitments
made by SITLA and LB Moab in the ZSA. See id. R838, 840, 848.
22.

The final Zoning Status Agreement was executed by the parties and became

effective March 3, 2017. See R850-857.
Plaintiffs’ Appeal
23.

On March 30, 2017, Plaintiffs filed this action in the 7th District Court. See Doc.

Entry 3-30-2017.
24.

On the same date, Plaintiffs sought to appeal the City’s decision to enter into the

ZSA to the City’s Appeal Authority. See R633-642. On June 5, 2017, the City denied this
request, determining that the requested appeal was not within the jurisdiction of the City’s
Appeal Authority because:
(1) the ZSA settles a bona fide legal dispute between the City and SITLA concerning
whether the City's land use ordinances apply in the first instance, and therefore is not reviewable
by the Appeal Authority since only decisions applying the zoning ordinance may be appealed to
the Appeal Authority;
(2) the ZSA concerns the scope of SITLA's local land use exemption pursuant to U.C.A.
§ 10-9a-304, a matter which is beyond the jurisdiction of the Appeal Authority; and

11

(3) the current dispute centers on the legality and enforceability of a contract between a
local government and the State of Utah and, as such, raises questions as to the interpretation of
various state enabling statutes -- questions which go beyond the interpretation and application of
the City's zoning ordinance. See R655-656.
25.

On July 5, 2017, Plaintiffs filed an Amended Complaint and Petition for Review

with this Court. Doc. Entry 07-05-2017.
STANDARD OF REVIEW
A municipality's land use decisions are entitled to a great deal of deference. Springville
Citizens for a Better Comm. v. Springville City, 1999 UT 25 ¶ 24 (“We . . . determine whether, in
light of the evidence before the City, a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion as the
City. We do not, however, weigh the evidence anew or substitute our judgment for that of the
municipality.”); Grace Drilling Co. v. Board of Review, 776 P.2d 63, 68 (Utah Ct. App. 1989)
(“Substantial evidence is more than a mere scintilla of evidence . . . though something less than
the weight of the evidence. Substantial evidence is such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind
might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.”).
Moreover, a party challenging a land use decision must “marshal all of the evidence in
support thereof and show that despite the supporting facts, and in light of conflicting and
contradictory evidence, the findings and decision are not supported by substantial evidence.” Save
our Canyons, et al. v. Board of Adjustment of Salt Lake County, et al., 2005 UT App 285¶ 16
(citation omitted); see also Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-705 (“The appellant has the burden of proving
that the land use authority erred.”).

12

Finally, a “City's failure to pass the legality requirement of section [10-9a-801] . . . does
not automatically entitle plaintiffs to the relief they request. Rather, plaintiffs must establish that
they were prejudiced by the City's noncompliance with its ordinances or, in other words, how, if
at all, the City's decision would have been different and what relief, if any, they are entitled to as
a result.” Springville Citizens, 1999 UT 25, ¶ 31. See also Decker Lake Ventures, LLC v. Utah
State Tax Comm'n, 2015 UT 66 ¶ 23 (“The mere identification of error does not alone sustain a
judgment of reversal. In an administrative appeal, like most any other, we must also consider the
question of prejudice. Thus, notwithstanding an error by the commission, we may reverse only if
the agency's error was “not harmless.”) (citation omitted).
ARGUMENT
I.

THE CITY’S DECISION WAS NOT ARBITRARY OR CAPRICIOUS.

A.

The Background of the Dispute.
Plaintiffs allege that the City’s decision was arbitrary, capricious and illegal because it

purportedly allowed the Intervenors to avoid full application of the City’s Master Planned
Development Ordinance:
Notwithstanding the Zoning Status Agreement, the City has no authority to enter into an
agreement that is contrary to the City’s Master Planned Development Ordinance and
proposed for the sole purpose of avoiding the application of the City’s Master Planned
Development Ordinance and in order to benefit a single project. On their face the proposed
project changes cannot be deemed minor, and a public hearing cannot be avoided.
Amended Complaint ¶ 52; see also id. ¶¶ 71-83 (asserting the City’s decision was “arbitrary,
capricious and illegal” because the City “is bound to comply with its own ordinances.”).
Plaintiffs’ allegations miss the point. There was a dispute between the City and Intervenors
over the applicability and legal effect of any of the City ordinances in the first place. As discussed
13

below, state law permits SITLA and its lessees to exempt themselves from the local zoning
ordinance. The ZSA set the condition upon which SITLA would allow the applicability of Moab’s
ordinances – the processing of the plan revisions as a minor amendment (as Intervenors felt the
City had previously committed to do in any event). See R847, ¶8 (negotiation between City and
SITLA on satisfactory process).
Even absent the issue of state immunity, there was a further legitimate dispute between the
parties over the extent of the City’s prior approvals. The City elected to settle both disputes
through an agreement that provided it with negotiated benefits above and beyond what it already
had.
For example, the City ordinance in question, MMC 17.65.130, directs major amendments
to master-planned communities to the land use authority for public hearings and approval. In
contrast, MMC 17.65.130.A allows City staff to process minor amendments without approval from
the City Council or planning commission. Critically, MMC 17.65.130.A provides:
When in question, the Moab City planning staff may determine whether the changes
shall be classified as minor or major, or may refer the question to the land use
authority, if deemed necessary.
After the prior project litigation was concluded, LB Moab went to the City with project
revisions that consolidated the first phase “casitas” into a hotel structure with 50 condominium
units with three bedroom lockouts, while maintaining identical overall project density. See R313.
At meetings with the Mayor and city staff, the City indicated that changes would be processed as
a minor amendment at the staff level. See id. 311. The City’s planning director subsequently
informed LB Moab in writing on April 2, 2014, that the proposed hotel concept was acceptable

14

without further action. See id. 451. LB Moab then expended upwards of $500,000 in additional
engineering and design to advance the project. See id. 735-736.
The City, under a new manager, subsequently changed its position, and in 2016 determined
that the proposed revisions were major revisions under MMC 17.65.130, requiring new public
hearings, and approvals at the Planning Commission and City Council level. At the same time,
the City Attorney acknowledged that there were ambiguities as to whether the multi-unit hotel
units had in fact been approved at the time of original project approval. See R458, R815.
Concurrently, there were local indications that the new City Manager intended to kill the project
entirely if possible. See id. 735-736. Subsequently, the conclusions of a meeting held by the
developer and the Mayor to resolve the budding dispute on August 11, 2016, were reversed by the
City Attorney by letter dated September 12, 2016. See id. 533-535, 538-539.
B.

SITLA’s Zoning Exemption.
Based on its dissatisfaction with conduct by the City that it perceived to be inconsistent,

SITLA informed the City that it intended to allow the Developer to develop the project outside
City jurisdiction. See Statement of Facts (“SOF”) ¶ 13. Section 9.4.4 of the Pre-Annexation
Agreement between the City, LB Moab and SITLA allows the disconnection of the Property from
the City in the event of a dispute of this nature. See R1, 17.
The subject property is state school trust land, and the Utah Municipal Land Use
Development Management Act (“MLUDMA”) provides that nothing in MLUDMA gives
municipalities jurisdiction over state lands. See Utah Code Ann. §10-9a-304. Under MLUDMA,
a “specified public agency” (defined by §10-9a-103(49)(a) as including the State) intending to

15

develop its land need only submit a development plan and schedule to local government no later
than the commencement of construction. Id.
Separate provisions of state law allow SITLA to subdivide state trust lands outside the
MLUDMA process, and create mechanisms for state-level building permitting and inspection.
Utah Code Ann. §53C-4-102(4); Utah Code Ann. §63A-5-206(6). Improvements on state lands –
including improvements constructed by non-state entities – are not subject to local zoning. See
Utah Code Ann. §63A-5-206(6)(d) (emphasis added). SITLA’s position concerning the zoning
immunity of state trust lands is consistent with the law in other western states. See State ex rel
Kempthorne v. Blaine County, 79 P. 3d 707 (Id. 2003); County of Santa Fe v. Milagro Wireless,
LLC, 32 P.3d 214 (N.M. App. 2001).
C.

Negotiated Settlement – The Zoning Status Agreement.
Faced with disputes at several levels, the parties entered into settlement discussions for

good reason. There were ambiguities in the original project approvals for the hotel, ambiguities
in the City’s prior course of conduct as to minor vs. major amendments under MMC 17.65.130,
and legal and business risk to all over the zoning immunity issue. As the City Attorney explained
to the City Council:
If we want to lawyer up and try to litigate these issues it would be a big
mess. And I don’t frankly, I don’t know who will win. But what I want to
do is try to solve problems cooperatively, and we’ve certainly engaged in
that effort here to try to do that.
R792.
At the same time, the City negotiated for and obtained additional benefits from the ZSA
that it would not otherwise have obtained under its ordinances and prior approvals. Again, as the
City Attorney told the City Council:
16

Agreed and to be fair to SITLA, I would say that we have engaged in a significant
kind of back and forth process identifying issues. City staff, we have requested
changes to that Zoning Status Agreement, and yeah, it’s very different from the
way it was originally presented to the City. So, in terms of conceptually what’s
before you tonight is there is this request to go forward with this Zoning Status
Agreement. Which would commit the City to: A: process the change as a minor,
staff-level change; and then also make some changes to the wastewater treatment
system within the development which would now be private lines as opposed to
public lines under the original entitlements; and 3rd some changes to the traffic
review and traffic studies which would mandate some review and additional traffic
studies at the conclusion of phase 1.
R804.
The negotiated benefits the City obtained are significant. The ZSA provides that the
developer will assume ownership of and operational responsibility for wastewater treatment
service lines and equipment, in contrast the prior agreements, which placed this responsibility on
the City. See ZSA ¶ 4; R852-853; cf. R7-8. The ZSA provides for additional traffic studies, and
the possibility of additional traffic-related improvements not contained in the City Approvals. See
id. ¶ 5; R853. The ZSA provides that SITLA will indemnify the City for future litigation costs.
See id ¶ 9, R853. Finally, it is important to note that all other requirements of the prior City
approvals remain in place; the developer is not freed from any substantive requirements. See e.g.
id. Exhibit B (Outstanding Items), R857.
D.

The Settlement Was Supported by Substantial Evidence, and Therefore Not Arbitrary or
Capricious.
By failing to even address the issues described above, Plaintiffs have failed to carry their

burden to “show that despite the supporting facts, and in light of conflicting and contradictory
evidence, the findings and decision are not supported by substantial evidence.” Save our Canyons,
et al., 2005 UT App 285, ¶ 16 (citation omitted). On the contrary the record demonstrates that
after careful review and study, and substantial public input, the City approved the ZSA in order to
17

resolve legitimate legal and factual issues that arose between the parties concerning ambiguity in
the parties’ previous agreements, ambiguity in City ordinances, likely estoppel claims and state
statutes potentially divesting the City of all jurisdiction over development of the Project.
Stated more succinctly, the City entered into the ZSA, not to avoid application of its
ordinances, but to maintain the maximum application of its land use ordinances and resolve the
wholly uncertain issues between the parties, not the least of which was SITLA’s statutory
exemption. The ability of the City to resolve a significant dispute and obtain the additional benefits
provided by the ZSA – documented through a voluminous written record and multiple public
hearings – provide substantial evidence supporting the City’s decision challenged here.
The decision was thus not arbitrary or capricious as defined by statute and well-settled law.
See Springville Citizens, 1999 UT 25 ¶ 25 (“In short, the undisputed evidence reveals without
question that substantial evidence supported the City's decision and that a reasonable person could
have reached the same decision as the City.”); Patterson v. Utah County Bd. of Adjustment, 893
P.2d 602, 604 (UT App. 1995) (“We must simply determine, in light of the evidence before the
Board, whether a reasonable mind could reach the same conclusion as the Board. It is not our
prerogative to weigh the evidence anew.”).

See also Utah Code Ann. 10-9a-801(3)(c)(i)

(“arbitrary and capricious” defined by lack of substantial evidence).
II.

THE ZSA IS LEGAL BECAUSE THE CITY HAS THE STATUTORY AND
COMMON LAW POWER TO ENTER AGREEMENTS IN SETTLEMENT OF
DISPUTES

A.

Cities Have Legal Power to Enter Agreements Concerning Development.
The provisions of the MLUDMA, pursuant to which Plaintiffs petition for review, provides

in pertinent part:
18

To accomplish the purposes of this chapter, municipalities may enact all ordinances,
resolutions, and rules and may enter into other forms of land use controls and development
agreements that they consider necessary or appropriate for the use and development of
land within the municipality, including ordinances, resolutions, rules, restrictive covenants,
easements, and development agreements governing uses, density, open spaces, structures,
buildings, energy efficiency, light and air, air quality, transportation and public or
alternative transportation, infrastructure, street and building orientation and width
requirements, public facilities, fundamental fairness in land use regulation, considerations
of surrounding land uses and the balance of the foregoing purposes with a landowner's
private property interests, … unless expressly prohibited by law.
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-102(2) (emphasis added). See also id. § 10-1-202 (“Municipalities may
sue and be sued, [and] enter into contracts . . . .”).
State statute also gives the City authority to enter intergovernmental agreements with state
entities such as SITLA, and to exempt the state entity from requirements that may be otherwise
required by local ordinance:
(3)(a) In an agreement under Subsection (1), a public agency that is a party to the agreement
may agree:
(i) to restrict its authority to issue permits to or assess fees from another public
agency that is a party to the agreement; and
(ii) to exempt another public agency that is a party to the agreement from permit or
fee requirements.
Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-202.
The City also has the inherent power to settle legitimate disputes, unless the same is
expressly forbidden by law:
Unless forbidden by charter or applicable general law, a municipal or other public
corporation has the power to settle and compromise disputed claims in its favor or against
it before or after suit has begun on it, and at any time before final judgment. A municipal
government's authority to sue and be sued, by necessary implication, carries with it the
authority to compromise disputed claims. . . . Power to compromise disputed claims may
be expressly conferred or may be implied, as from the power to sue and be sued, or as a
necessary incident of its power to contract. A municipality has no power to compromise a
claim which is not doubtful and upon which the city could not be held liable. . . . .
19

17 McQuillin Mun. Corp., Power to compromise claims, § 48:20 (3d ed.).
B.

Plaintiffs Assume that the ZSA Violates MMC 17.65.130, But that Was an Issue the
Parties Resolved Through the ZSA.
The core of the Plaintiffs’ argument in this case is that the proposed revisions to the project

MPD were major amendments under MMC 17.65.130, and that the City could not legally enter
into a settlement agreement that allowed the revisions to be processed as minor amendments. This
is incorrect for two reasons.
First, there were legitimate disputes between the parties over whether the revisions were in
fact major or minor, what number of hotel units had been approved in the first place, and what the
legal effect was of the City’s prior course of conduct in deeming the revisions approvable at the
staff level. Plaintiffs ignore these facts and simply assume these disputes away.
Second, even if the Court assumes that the revisions were in fact major under the MMC,
the City would be entitled to depart from its ordinance in determining the terms under which a
zoning-exempt state entity such as SITLA would elect to remain within City jurisdiction. Put
another way, Plaintiffs’ allegations that the project revisions were major, when that was one of the
issues in dispute, cannot be used to invalidate the settlement agreement here.
In reviewing the legality of a public body’s decision to settle a claim, the court by definition
does not determine the legalities of the matter in dispute:
The trial court in approving a settlement need not inquire into the precise legal rights of the
parties nor reach and resolve the merits of the claims or controversy, but need only
determine that the settlement is fair, adequate, reasonable and appropriate under the
particular facts and that there has been valid consent by the concerned parties.
Citizens for a Better Environment v. Gorsuch, 718 F. 2d 1117, 1126 (D.C. Cir. 1983), quoting
Metropolitan Housing Development Corp. v. Village of Arlington Heights, 616 F.2d 1006, 1014
20

(7th Cir. 1980).
The Court specifically does not reach the merits of a disputed claim; public policy
expressly favors the ability of the parties and the public to save time and money from voluntary
settlement of litigation. Id at 1126. The Utah Supreme Court has consistently expressed this same
policy:
We have long held that the public policy of Utah is to encourage settlements. The purpose
behind this policy is to “‘promote harmony and to prevent the waste of assets.’” When
parties agree to settle their claims, they move their dispute outside the realm of the judicial
process. In so doing, they effectively agree to forego the assistance of the court in exchange
for the immediacy and certainty of a settlement.
Iron Head Const. Inc. v. Gurney, 2009 UT 25, ¶ 20 (citations omitted).
In approving the Zoning Status Agreement, the City Council was doing just that – avoiding
manifest uncertainty over multiple issues, including whether the revisions were minor, major, or
previously approved. See SOF, ¶ 18. The Plaintiffs’ arguments fail because they simply assume
that their legal position on the minor-major issue governs the decision of the City Council to
resolve a dispute, when it does not.
By entering the ZSA, the City “agree[d] to forego the assistance of the court in exchange
for the immediacy and certainty of a settlement.” Iron Head Const. Inc., 2009 UT 25, ¶ 20.
Because Plaintiffs fail to establish there was no genuine dispute between the City and Intervenors,
Plaintiffs fail to establish that the ZSA was “illegal” as beyond the City’s authority. Id.
Plaintiffs’ failure to address the genuine issues between the parties to the ZSA is doubly
problematic because of the state statutes divesting the City of land use jurisdiction. See, e.g., Utah
Code Ann. § 10-9a-304(1) (“Unless otherwise provided by law, nothing contained in this chapter
may be construed as giving a municipality jurisdiction over property owned by the state or the
21

United States.”); Utah Code Ann. § 63A-5-206(6)(d) (“The use of state property and any
improvements constructed on state property, including improvements constructed by nonstate
entities, is not subject to the zoning authority of local governments . . . .”).
Plaintiffs don’t allege, or even imply, that these statues are unconstitutional or are
otherwise inapplicable under the circumstances. Under the facts of this case, even if the Court
were to find that the proposed changes were “major” changes under the MMC, Plaintiffs do not
allege why SITLA could not then withdraw its consent to be bound by the City’s ordinance
pursuant to state law. The Project would then proceed without the “major” review process sought
by Plaintiffs.
For this reason, Plaintiffs fail to demonstrate, how, if at all, the decision would ultimately
be different but for the City’s alleged procedural error. See Springville Citizens, 1999 UT 25, ¶ 31
(The “City’s failure to pass the legality requirement of section [10-9a-801] . . . does not
automatically entitle plaintiffs to the relief they request. Rather, plaintiffs must establish that they
were prejudiced by the City’s noncompliance with its ordinances or, in other words, how, if at all,
the City’s decision would have been different and what relief, if any, they are entitled to as a
result.”).
In short, the ZSA cannot be “illegal” for violating ordinances which by state statute
expressly do not apply to the property which is the subject of the agreement. By ignoring the
provisions of the state code and focusing solely on City ordinance, Plaintiffs have failed to plead
or otherwise demonstrate the City’s decision to enter the ZSA was illegal. Nor can this Court, in
determining whether a settlement is legal, rely solely on Plaintiffs’ view of the law – it need not

22

“inquire into the precise legal rights of the parties in determining if the settlement is valid. Citizens,
supra, 718 F. 2d at 1126.
III.

PLAINTIFFS ARE NOT ENTITLED TO MANDAMUS ORDERING AN APPEAL
TO THE CITY’S ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL AUTHORITY.
Plaintiffs’ Petition raises one other claim – that they are entitled to mandamus ordering the

Moab City Appeal Authority hear their administrative appeal. See Amended Complaint, Prayer
for Relief ¶ 1.
In this regard, Plaintiffs filed their administrative appeal on the same date as the Complaint
in this action. See SOF, ¶¶ 23-24. The City determined that the requested appeal was not within
the jurisdiction of the City’s Appeal Authority because the ZSA concerns the scope of SITLA's
local land use exemption pursuant to U.C.A. § 10-9a-304, a matter which is beyond the jurisdiction
of the Appeal Authority; and because the current dispute centers on the legality and enforceability
of a contract between a local government and the State of Utah and so raises questions as to the
interpretation of various state enabling statutes -- questions which go beyond the interpretation and
application of the City's zoning ordinance. See SOF ¶ 24; R655-656.
Addressing the requirements for mandamus relief, the Utah Supreme Court has stated:
In order to obtain extraordinary relief under rule 65B(d), a petitioner must establish two
things: (1) “a clear legal right to the performance of the act demanded,” and (2) “a plain
duty of the officer, board, or other tribunal to perform as demanded.” Even if a petitioner
can meet both prongs of the test, the court has the discretion to deny extraordinary relief.
To determine whether to grant relief, “a court must look to the nature of the relief sought,
the circumstances alleged in the petition, and the purpose of the type of writ sought.”
Hogs R Us v. Town of Fairfield, 2009 UT 21, ¶ 12 (citations omitted); see also 17 McQuillin Mun.
Corp. Necessity of clear legal right to performance, § 51:13 (3d ed.) (“According to the

23

overwhelming weight of authority, the writ will not issue to compel the performance of an official
act unless the petitioner shows a clear legal right to have the act performed by the defendant.”).
In this case, Plaintiffs right to an appeal to the City’s Appeal Authority is anything but
clear. At the time Plaintiffs attempted the appeal to the Appeal Authority, the City’s Code
provided, in pertinent part that "any . . . person . . . adversely affected by a decision administering
or interpreting a zoning ordinance may appeal that decision applying the zoning ordinance . . .")
Moab Municipal Code (“MMC”) §17.72.150(A)(1)( emphasis added); see also Utah Code Ann.
§10-9a-707(4)(“Only those decisions in which a land use authority has applied a land use
ordinance to a particular application, person or parcel may be appealed to an appeal authority.”).
As Plaintiffs themselves allege, however, by entering into the ZSA the City agreed that
processing of the Intervenors’ proposed changes would not be processed according to the City’s
interpretation of section 17.65.130. See Amended Complaint ¶¶ 48-52. Instead, in light of the
state statutes divesting the City from land use jurisdiction over the subject property and the other
issues discussed above, the City and Intervenors “enter[ed] into this [ZSA] to reflect the manner
that the City Approvals Amendments Application as well as future land use applications
concerning the Property and the Project would be handled by the Parties.” ZSA Recital O, R851.
By its terms, therefore, the ZSA was not a decision “administering or interpreting” or
“applying” section 17.65.130. Id. Rather, it was a decision to resolve a more global dispute in
light of competing legal and policy considerations, which was indeed and necessarily contrary to
the City’s own application or interpretation of its ordinance. Neither state code nor City ordinances
provide for internal administrative appeal of such a decision. See MMC §§17.72.150(A)(1); Utah
Code Ann. §10-9a-707(4)(“Only those decisions in which a land use authority has applied a land
24

use ordinance to a particular application, person or parcel may be appealed to an appeal
authority.”).
Plaintiffs’ characterizations of the ZSA as “applying” the City’s ordinances therefore fail
to provide any clear right to mandamus.2 See Hogs R Us, 2009 UT 21, ¶ 12. And again, Plaintiffs
pleadings fail to address state statutes divesting the City of land-use jurisdiction over the Project.
Accordingly, they fail to address how the result would be different if the Court found that City
ordinances required a hearing, only to have SITLA withdraw its consent to the City’s land use
authority. The City correctly determined that the matters in this case were beyond the jurisdiction
of the local appeal authority. Under the circumstances Plaintiffs’ mandamus claim fails as a matter
of law.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, Intervenors respectfully request this Court’s Order dismissing
Plaintiffs’ Amended Complaint and Petition for Review, with prejudice and on the merits.

Indeed, Plaintiffs’ own pleading is internally inconsistent on this point. They allege that the
City entered the ZSA for the sole purpose of avoiding application of section 17.65.130
(Complaint ¶ 52), while going on to allege that by entering the ZSA the City “applied” that
section. Id. ¶ 68.
2

25

DATED this 17th day of January, 2018.
SNOW CHRISTENSEN & MARTINEAU

/s/ Robert C. Keller
JODY K BURNETT
ROBERT C. KELLER
Attorneys for Defendant Intervenors
The Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands
Administration and LB Moab Land Company,
LLC

26

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that a true and correct copy of the attached INTERVENOR
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT in Case No. 170700009 before
the Seventh Judicial District Court in and for Grand County, State of Utah, was served upon the
parties listed below via electronic notification from the clerk of court on the 17th day of January,
2018.
Attorneys for Plaintiff
Barbara K. Polich
George Poulton
ANTCZAK POLICH LAW LLC
324 South 400 West, Suite 225
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
Attorney for Moab City
Christopher G. McAnany
Dufford, Waldeck, Milburn & Krohn, LLP
744 Horizon Court, Suite 300
Grand Junction, Colorado 81506
mcanany@dwmk.com

/s/ Zachary B. Hoddy
Legal Assistant

4840-5240-4058, v. 1

