Barbara K. Polich (#2620)
ANTCZAK POLICH LAW LLC
324 South 400 West, Suite 225
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
Attorneys for Plaintiffs
IN THE SEVENTH DISTRICT COURT, GRAND COUNTY
STATE OF UTAH
LUCY WALLINGFORD, KILEY MILLER,
JOHN RZECZYCKI, CAROL MAYER,
DAVID BODNER, MEECHE BODNER,
SARAH STOCK, JOSEPHINE KOVASH,
individuals, LIVING RIVERS, a nonprofit
corporation.

PLAINTIFFS’ MEMORANDUM IN
OPPOSITION TO INTERVENOR
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
(Oral Argument Requested

Plaintiffs,
vs.

Case No. 170700009

MOAB CITY, MOAB CITY COUNCIL.

Judge Lyle Anderson

Defendants, and
THE UTAH SCHOOL AND
INSTITUTIONAL TRUST LANDS
ADMINISTRATION and LB MOAB LAND
COMPANY, LLC,
Intervenor Defendants.
Plaintiffs respectfully submit this Memorandum in Opposition to Intervenor Defendants
Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration’s (“SITLA”) and LB Moab Land
Company, LLC’s (“LB Moab”) (SITLA and LB Moab are sometimes collectively referred to
herein as “Defendants”) Motion For Summary Judgment (“Motion”) and request a hearing.
PREFERRED DISPOSITION AND SUPPORTING GROUNDS
Defendants’ arguments incorrectly frame the issues actually before this Court. In essence,
Defendants ask this Court to find that an elephant, despite its size and weight, may be treated as a
1

mouse, and that a City and a developer may require the public to bear the burden of the
pachyderm without even allowing the public to provide input as required by ordinance. Indeed,
Defendants ask this Court to endorse the stripping the public of its voice and their statutory right
to participate in land use processes. Not surprisingly, Defendants point to no case law or statute
to support their argument that a city and a developer may, by entering into a contract, circumvent
duly enacted land use ordinances. Defendants’ Motion focuses on the history and merits of the
development, rather than the deliberate scheme to bypass public input, as required by the City
land use code, regarding significant and substantial changes to the Lionsback Resort Master
Planned Development (“Lionsback”).
As a preliminary issue, this Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction to review the land use
determination at issue in this case because the City has refused to follow its required
administrative appeal procedures. Without jurisdiction, this Court is unable to proceed on a
review on the merits and should issue an order requiring the City follow its administrative
procedures and allow Plaintiffs’ appeal to be heard by Moab’s land use appeal authority, as
provided in state law and city code.
Alternatively, under Utah Rule of Civil Procedure 56, a motion for summary judgment
may only be granted if the moving party is entitled to relief as a matter of law. Defendants are
not entitled to relief as a matter of law because mis-labeling the “Amendment to the MPD” dated
June 2, 2016 (the “Amendments”) to Lionsback are “Minor Changes” under Moab City Code
Section 17.65.130, is not supported by substantial evidence and is, therefore, arbitrary and
capricious. Indeed, the position of Moab City’s (“Moab” or “City”) own legal counsel has been

2

that the changes in the Amendments should be processed as “Major Changes.” 1 Despite Moab’s
City Attorney’s (“City Attorney”) conclusion, the City arbitrarily and capriciously determined
that the Amendments be mis-labeled and processed as “Minor Changes.” Moab’s determination
fails the “reasonable mind” test, no reasonable mind could conclude based on the evidence in the
record that basically doubling the hotel and parking lot, and numerous other changes to the
phases of the project, are “Minor Changes.”
Further, such a determination is contrary to Moab City’s Code and is illegal. Moab is
bound to abide by its own ordinances and is not free to deprive citizens their right to participate
in government by simply signing a contract. Finally, Plaintiffs have suffered prejudice by being
denied a public hearing on the changes in the Amendments, as required by Moab City Ordinance
§§ 17.65.080 & 17.65.130. For these reasons, Plaintiffs, respectfully, request that this Court deny
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgement.
RESPONSE TO DEFENDANTS’ STATEMENT OF UNDISPUTED MATERIAL FACTS 2
For the purpose of this Motion only, Plaintiffs respond to Defendants’ Statements of
Undisputed Material Facts as follows:
Statement No 1.
The State of Utah, through SITLA, is the owner of the real property
located in Grand County, Utah, that is the Subject of this Case (the “Subject Property”). See R1.
1

Under the terms of the Zoning Status Agreement, SITLA agreed to indemnify the City’s legal costs and assume the
primary defense of litigation involving the Zoning Status Agreement; the quid pro quo was Moab’s agreement to
cooperate with SITLA in such actions. (R. 853.) Consequently, any subsequent position taken or not taken by the
City, must be viewed considering this cooperation agreement.
2

Defendants take mutually exclusive positions relating to the nature of this case. Defendants declare that this action
is an “appeal” on the record below relating to a land use determination and thus, is governed by the restrictions set
forth in the Municipal Land Use Development and Management Act, Utah Code 10-9a-101 et seq, (“LUDMA”),
(Def.’s Mot. Summ. J. at 4), while simultaneously seeking to distance themselves from the procedural requirements
governing land use determinations set forth in LUDMA and Moab’s Ordinances by arguing that the land use
determination is actually a settlement agreement existing above and not subject to the LUDMA and Moab’s
ordinances (Def.’s Mot. Summ. J. at 24.). Should the Court determine the issue before it is not over a land use
determination, Plaintiffs reserve the right to seek discovery and file a Motion under Utah Rule of Civil Procedure
56(d).

3

In June, 2006, the Intervenors entered into a Lease and Development Agreement which allowed
LB Moab to develop and construct a Mixed Use Master Planned Development (“MPD”) for the
Lionsback Resort (the “Project”) on the Subject Property. See id. 1-2.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 1 to the extent Statement No. 1
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 1 are the best evidence of their
contents.
Statement No 2.
In October, 2008, the City and LB Moab, joined by SITLA, entered into a
Pre-Annexation Agreement to annex the Subject Property into the City. See R1-23. The
Agreement addressed the parties’ development rights and obligations, including the annexation
process, land use and planning processes, subdivision improvements, water and sanitary sewer
services, utilities and roads, as well as drinking water source protections. Id. The agreement was
accompanied by a detailed preliminary Master Planned Development (“MDP”) plan. Id.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 2 to the extent Statement No. 2 misstates
the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 2 are the best evidence of their contents.
Statement No. 2 also improperly sets out legal conclusions regarding development rights. While
Defendants seek to emphasize the benefits the City has received under various agreements, it
must be noted that Defendants received substantial benefits by annexing the property, including
water and sewer service, without which it is likely Lionsback would not be possible.
Statement No 3.
Following the annexation the City and LB Moab entered into a
Development and Phasing Agreement dated July 28, 2009. See R386. This agreement authorized
development of 188 single family lots, 18 employee units, and 50 Lodge/Commercial Lots/Units.
See id. 310, 391.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 3 to the extent Statement No. 3 misstates
the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 3 are the best evidence of their contents.
Statement No 4.
The Moab Local Green Party, current plaintiff Living Rivers, and several
individuals sued the City in October, 2008 challenging the City’s annexation and preliminary
MDP Plan for the Project. See R 295. The District Court Upheld the City’s decision, the Utah
Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s decision, and on October 2, 2012, the Utah
Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs’ petition for certiorari. See Moab Local Green Party et al v.

4

Moab City, 2012 UT App 113, 276 P.3d 1230 (Utah App. 2012) cert. den. 288 P.3d 1045 (Utah
2012).
RESPONSE: Uncontroverted, but irrelevant.
Statement No 5.
After completion of the Moab Local Green Party litigation, LB Moab and
SITLA began discussions with the City in 2013 about more detailed planning and engineering for
the project. See R311, 738. Based on updated market analysis, LB Moab presented a somewhat
revised concept for the project to City staff and the City mayor in September and October, 2013.
See id. 310-312. The proposed revision consolidated the hotel units in one building (instead of
nine separate buildings), and moved the parking lot the rear of the hotel instead of placing it in
front of the development. Id.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 5 to the extent Statement No. 5 misstates
the Record. The Court should note that the documents cited, R 310-12, appear to be a
presentation slide providing a purported summary of certain events; there is no indication in the
document to show or establish the accuracy of the summaries. To the extent such supporting
documents are in existence, they should have been included as part of the record. The documents
cited in Statement No. 5 are the best evidence of their contents.
Statement No 6.
At the time of the September 2013 meeting, City staff indicated that the
proposed revisions would be considered a minor amendment to the existing preliminary MPD
plan, and could be approved by staff. See R311.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 6 to the extent Statement No. 6 misstates
the Record. The Court should note that the document cited, R311, appears to be a presentation
slide providing a purported summary of certain events; there is no indication in the document to
show or establish the accuracy of the summaries. To the extent such supporting documents are in
existence, they should have been included as part of the record. The document cited in Statement
No. 6 is the best evidence of its contents.
Statement No 7.
One aspect of the proposed revision was the design of the
lodge/condominium units as three bedroom condominiums with “lockout” doors allowing

5

individual bedrooms that could be rented separately. See R710-712. In light of this, the City and
LB Moab identified ambiguities in the original hotel approvals. See id. 479.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 7 to the extent Statement No. 7 misstates
the Record. The documents cited as, R710-712, are engineering drawings, which do not support
the statements asserted. The documents cited in Statement No. 7 are the best evidence of their
contents. The “ambiguities in the original hotel approvals,” i.e. the number of rooms Defendants
could include in the hotel, are irrelevant. Indeed, Defendants position is akin to being told that
they may place 5 animals in a canoe, getting approval for mice, and then being upset that the
canoe sinks when they switch from mice to elephants. The nature of the “Major Change” does
not relate to the number of rooms, but rather drastic changes to the layout, phasing, and size of
the hotel. While the quantity of items may remain the same, size in this case does matter. As
approved in the preliminary plan, phase one of Lionsback included a hotel of 41,360 square feet
and a parking lot of 38,760 square feet (104 spaces). (R749.) The changes to the development
include, without limitations, nearly double the square footage of the hotel to 81,688 square feet
and more than double the parking lot to 90,160 square feet (230 spaces), id., and expanding the
hotel site by over an acre.
Statement No 8.
The body of the Development and Phasing Agreement describes “50
Lodge/Commercial Lots/Units.” See R391. See also id. 822 (Sketch depicting “Condo 2
Bedroom Hotel Suites”). In the “Phasing Table (Exhibit C) of the same agreement, the Hotel
units are described as “Hotel Facilities (50 Hotel Rooms …”). See id. 403. Conversely, the
Subdivision Improvements Schedule (Exhibit E) states that 50 Hotel Guests Condominium Units
will be constructed with the Hotel and will be available for sale to third party purchasers. See id.
406. Sketch plans submitted at the time of the initial development proposals for the hotel
contemplate the multi-bedroom lockout concept. See id. 422.

6

RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 8 to the extent Statement No. 8 misstates
the Record. The document cited in Statement No. 8 are the best evidence of their contents.
Further, Statement No. 8 is irrelevant for the same reasons set forth in Statement No. 7.
Statement No 9.
On April 2, 2014, the City’s Planning Director, Jeff Reinhart, sent LB
Moab a confirmatory email indicating that he had spoken with City Manager Donna Metzler and
that the three-bedroom lockoff concept for the hotel condominium units was acceptable. See
R451. The full text of the April 2, 2014, email from the City to LB Moab is as follows: Hello
Mike, I spoke with Donna [Metzler] about the hotel use and we cannot identify any issues with
how the hotel units or rooms are owned. Whether or not the hotel units are sold as individual
condos in the future is an option you can pursue, or not at your discretion. The density or
number of proposed units is the important thing for us and not the way the units are owned. It is
our understanding that your current plan is for 50 hotel units which will each have three
bedrooms, Each bedroom will be treated as a hotel lock off room like you have done at the
Gonzo Inn so there will be a total of 150 hotel rooms. If you need more than this email, please let
me know. Id. (emphasis added).
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 9 to the extent Statement No. 9 misstates
the Record. The document cited in Statement No. 9 are the best evidence of their contents.
Further, Statement No. 9 is irrelevant for the same reasons set forth in Statement No. 7.
Statement No 10.
In reliance upon the series of favorable discussions and communications
with the City about the design update, LB Moab invested approximately $500,000 in updated
architectural and engineering as it prepared to complete financing and move toward
construction of the project. See R735-736.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 10 to the extent Statement No. 10
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 10 are the best evidence of their
contents. Subject to the forgoing objections, Plaintiffs further respond by stating that the facts set
forth in Statement No. 10 are irrelevant. Indeed the Utah Supreme Court has long held that “one
who deals with a municipal corporation does so at his peril. He is presumed to know the
municipal ordinances controlling the administration of public business and the limitations on the

7

powers and authority of the City officers he is dealing with.” Thatcher Chem. Co. v. Salt Lake
City Corp., 21 Utah 2d 355, 358, 445 P.2d 769, 771 (1968).
Statement No 11.
In summer 2015, LB Moab began to hear rumors that the new Moab City
Manager, Rebecca Davidson, opposed the Lionback project and intended to stop the
development. See R736. SITLA sent a letter to Ms. Davidson on November 23, 2015, requesting
confirmation of the City’s position on project entitlements, agreements, and status. See id. 452454. SITLA never received a written response to this correspondence. Id. 739.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 11 to the extent Statement No. 11
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 11 are the best evidence of their
contents. Further, the Statement No. 11 is irrelevant for the same reasons set forth in the response
to Statement No. 10.
Statement No 12.
On April 6, 2016, outside legal counsel for the City sent a letter to legal
counsel for LB Moab memorializing a meeting held by the parties on March 14, 2016. See R458459. The letter stated “At that meeting all parties acknowledged that there are ambiguities in the
Development Agreement.” Id. the City’s counsel further stated the City’s position that LB Moab
could not reasonably rely on past statements made by City staff with respect to the design of the
hotel, and that LB Moab should submit an application to the City for approval of the hotel
modification in accordance with Moab’s Master Planned Development Ordinance, Chapter
17.65 of the Moab Municipal Code. Id.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 12 to the extent Statement No. 12
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 12 are the best evidence of their
contents. Further, the referenced letter from the City Attorney also states, “[The City] expressed
the opinion that this plan would constitute a change under the Master Planned Development
Ordinance, MMC Chapter 17.65, which would require review by the City, as opposed to merely
proceeding to final plan for the original first phase… In general, the City process will entail the
following: 1. review of the application for completeness … 2. staff review … 3. public hearing …
4. decision by City Council (the Land Use Authority).” (R. 459)

8

Statement No 13.
In response, on June 30, 2016, LB Moab filed an Amended Preliminary
Site Plan with the City together with an application to amend its approved preliminary master
planned development. See R470-509. SITLA joined in this application. See id. 483. The
application noted the City’s prior approval of the revised hotel configuration, together with the
City attorney’s more recent statement that the prior staff approval could not be relied upon. See
id. 479. The application expressly reserved all rights and claim’s with regard to the matter. Id.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 13 to the extent it misstates the Record.
The documents cited in Statement No. 13 are the best evidence of their contents. Further the
statements regarding the unauthorized staff approval are irrelevant, especially in light of the Utah
Supreme Court’s decision in Thatcher Chem. Co. v. Salt Lake City Corp., 21 Utah 2d 355, 358,
445 P.2d 769, 771 (1968) (“one who deals with a municipal corporation does so at his peril. He
is presumed to know the municipal ordinances controlling the administration of public business
and the limitations on the powers and authority of the City officers he is dealing with.”), and the
well-established principle that cities are “bound by the terms and standards of applicable zoning
ordinances and are not at liberty to make land use decisions in derogation thereof.” Springville
Citizens for a Better Cmty. v. City of Springville, 1999 UT 25, ¶ 30, 979 P.2d 332, 337.
Statement No 14.
On August 11, 2016, LB Moab and SITLA met with the Moab Mayor and
City Manager to discuss the processing of the amendment application. See R533-535. SITLA and
LB Moab understood that the Mayor and City Manager committed at this meeting that the
amendment application would be processed by the City as a minor plan amendment under
applicable provisions of the Moab Municipal Code. Id.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 14 to the extent Statement No. 14
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 14 are the best evidence of their
contents. Further the statements regarding the unauthorized staff approval of the changes are
irrelevant for the same reasons set forth in the Response to Statement No. 13.
Statement No 15.
On September 12, 2016, legal counsel for the City wrote a letter to legal
counsel for LB Moab disavowing the position LB Moab and SITLA thought the Mayor and City
Manager had taken in the August 11, 2016, meeting and concluding that the amendment
9

application would have to be processed as a major plan amendment under MMC 17.65.130. See
R538-539. During this time period, City staff made several requests for documents and reports
that went beyond any matters being considered under the amendment application, giving the
impression to the development parties that all entitlements for the project were in question. See
id. 739.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 15 to the extent Statement No. 15
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 15 are the best evidence of their
contents. Specifically, there is nothing in the record which supports that the requests for
additional information gave “the impression to the development parties that all entitlements for
the project were in question.” R. 739.
Statement No 16.
Based on its perception that the City was backtracking on commitments
made to LB Moab with respect to the hotel configuration, and the processing of any required
change as a minor amendment SITLA informed legal counsel for the City by telephone on
October 13, 2016, that it intended to pull the project from municipal jurisdiction if the
outstanding issues could not be addressed, with a follow-up email communication on October
25, 2016. See R552-553. The parties contemporaneously discussed a compromise of the dispute
that acknowledged SITLA’s statutory exemption from local zoning, but represented a
compromise of the underlying issues. See id. 553.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 16 to the extent Statement No. 16
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 16 are the best evidence of their
contents. It is important to note that in the October 25, 2016 email communication, SITLA
reasoned that the “Major Change” process, which includes a public hearing, would be “more
time-consuming and risky….” (R552.) Further the statements regarding the unauthorized and
illegal staff approval of the changes are irrelevant, especially considering the Utah Supreme
Court’s decision in Thatcher Chem. Co. v. Salt Lake City Corp., 21 Utah 2d 355, 358, 445 P.2d
769, 771 (1968) (“one who deals with a municipal corporation does so at his peril. He is
presumed to know the municipal ordinances controlling the administration of public business and
the limitations on the powers and authority of the City officers he is dealing with.”), and the
10

well-established principle that cities are “bound by the terms and standards of applicable zoning
ordinances and are not at liberty to make land use decisions in derogation thereof.” Springville
Citizens for a Better Cmty. v. City of Springville, 1999 UT 25, ¶ 30, 979 P.2d 332, 337.
Statement No 17.
The compromise of the outstanding dispute was set forth in a draft
document called the Zoning Status Agreement. See R556-561. The draft Zoning Status
Agreement was negotiated back and forth but the parties over a period of weeks in October and
November 2016. See id. 562-574. The City’s responsive draft of the Zoning Status Agreement
contained multiple negotiated changes to the original draft SITLA had presented to the City that
substantially bettered the City’s position compared to the status quo. Id; see also R592-596,
R607-609, R786.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 17 to the extent Statement No. 17
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 17 are the best evidence of their
contents. Statement No. 17 is irrelevant for the same reasons set forth in the response to
Statement No. 16.
Statement No 18.
Recitals M and N of the revised Zoning Status Agreement acknowledged
SITLA’s position that it has the right and authority to withdraw its consent to local planning and
zoning jurisdiction pursuant to Utah Code Ann. 10-9a-304, and further acknowledged the
existence of a potential legal dispute between SITLA and the City with respect to the scope of
SITLA’s zoning exemption. See R576.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 18 as irrelevant and further objects to
the extent it seeks to assert conclusions of law; among other things, an undescribed notice “to
counsel” does not initiate a disconnection process of annexed land. See UCA 10-2-501 et seq.
which requires a hearing on the request and a determination by the City of Moab. Further, these
recitals contain unsubstantiated hearsay and cannot be offered for their truth. The referenced
document itself is the best evidence of its content. Also see response to Statement No. 16.
Statement No 19.
The proposed Zoning Status Agreement was first presented to the Moab
City Council for approval on December 13, 2016. See R779-791. After a lengthy public
discussion, the Council tabled approval until January, 2017. Id.
11

RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 19 to the extent Statement No. 19
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 19 are the best evidence of their
contents. Further, there is no evidence in the documents cited that the discussion in the
December 13, 2016 meeting was ever opened for public comment or input. It is also important
to note that Troy Herald, SITLA’s project manager for Lionsback stated, “[a] major amendment
requires public hearings, requires public scrutiny, requires a lots [sic] of time. 3 Also, it opens it
back up for potential legal challenges. That’s a concern from [sic] us ….” (R. 783.)
Statement No 20.
On February 1, 2017, the City Council held a special public workshop
meeting to discuss the Lionsback development and the proposed Zoning Status Agreement. See
R792-816. This meeting included opportunity for public comment, which was received by the
Council. See id, 792-795. The Council considered the ZSA again on February 14, 2017 (see
R817-833), and again of February 28, 2017, at which time the Council approved the Zoning
Status Agreement by a 3-2 vote. See id. 834-845.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 20 to the extent Statement No. 20
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 20 are the best evidence of their
contents.
Statement No 21.
The City Council’s consideration of the Zoning Status Agreement
included, but was not limited to, consideration of alternate legal means by which SITLA and LB
Moab could develop the project outside of City jurisdiction (see R829, 849); the prior
commitments of the City to approve the hotel configuration or process the change as a minor
amendment (id. 813-816, 827-828); ambiguities in the prior agreements as to the number of
hotel units already permitted (id. 814-815); the fact that the City Code allows City staff to decide
which amendments are minor (id. 815, R828); the developer’s expenditure of funds in reliance of
the City’s representations (id. 814, 847-848); the overall timeline of the project (id. 734-741);
and additional substantive commitments made by SITLA and LB Moab in the ZSA. See id. R838,
840, 848.

3

While SITLA emphasizes the amount of time Lionsback has been in the works, it appears it attempts to place the
blame for the slowdown of the project on citizens participating in government and seeking to protect their legal
rights, ignoring the significant recession which occurred during these same years and LB Moab and SITLA deciding
to “relaunch” Lionsback when market conditions were mover favorable. (R.311)

12

RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 21 to the extent Statement No. 21
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 21 are the best evidence of their
contents. Specifically, MMC § 17.65.130 only grants City staff discretion when there is a
question as to whether the change to the master planned development is major or minor. As
described in more detail herein, there can be no question that the Amendments are “Major
Changes.”
Statement No 22.
The final Zoning Agreement was executed by the parties and became
effective March 3, 2017. See R850-857.
RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 22 to the extent Statement No. 22
misstates the Record. The documents cited in Statement No. 22 are the best evidence.
Statement No 23.
On March 30, 2017, Plaintiffs filed this action in the 7th District Court.
See Doc. Entry 3-30-2017.
RESPONSE: Uncontroverted.
Statement No 24.
On the same date, Plaintiffs sought to appeal the City’s decision to enter
into the ZSA to the City’s Appeal Authority. See R633-642. On June 5, 2017, the City denied this
request, determining that the requested appeal was not within the jurisdiction of the City’s
Appeal Authority because
1. The ZSA settles a bona fide legal dispute between the City and SITLA concerning
whether the City’s land use ordinances apply in the first instance, and therefore is
not reviewable by the Appeal Authority since only decisions applying the zoning
ordinance may be appealed to the Appeal Authority;
2. The ZSA concerns the scope of SITLA’s local land use exemption pursuant to
U.C.A.§ 10-9a-304, a matter which is beyond the jurisdiction of the Appeal
Authority; and
3. The current dispute centers on the legality and enforceability of a contract
between a local government and the State of Utah and, as such, raises questions
as to the interpretation of various state enabling statutes — questions which go
beyond the interpretation and application of the City’s zoning ordinance. See
R655-656.

13

RESPONSE: Plaintiffs object to Statement No. 24 to the extent it seeks to assert
conclusions of law; further, these statements contain impermissible hearsay and cannot be
offered for their truth. It is not denied that the City proffered these reasons for denying the
appeal or that Plaintiffs contemporaneously filed an administrative appeal and this litigation,
believing the City may well deny the appeal or if an appeal was not filed, assert that Plaintiffs
had waived their rights.
Statement No 25.
On July 5, 2017, Plaintiffs filed an Amended Complaint and Petition for
Review with this Court. Doc. Entry 07-05-2017.
RESPONSE: Uncontroverted.
PLAINTIFFS’ ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS OF UNDISPUTED MATERIAL FACTS 4
1.
By agreeing to the annexation of the SITLA property, SITLA and LB Moab were
able to obtain valuable and necessary water and sewer services to the project. (R. 7-8.)
2.

As approved in the preliminary plan, phase one of Lionsback included a hotel of

41,360 square feet and a parking lot of 38,760 square feet (104 spaces). (R. 749.)
3.

The changes to the development nearly double the square footage of the hotel to

81,688 square feet and more than double the parking lot to 90,160 square feet (230 spaces). Id.
4.

The June 2, 2016 Amendment to MPD, submitted by LB Moab, LLC and SITLA,

contained a phasing table at Exhibit B, which summarizes the Development and Phasing
Agreement dated July 28, 2009 and the Amendments. (R. 485.)
5.

The Amendments increase the size of the hotel site by over an acre. (R. 480.)

6.

The Amended Preliminary Site Plan and Conceptual Design Package dated June

28, 2016 includes an illustrative site plan which shows changes in the layout of the development

4

Relevant portions of the record are enclosed as Exhibit A.

14

as approved, and with the proposed changes set forth in the Amendments. (Compare R. 494 with
R. 496.)
7.

On September 12, 2016, Moab’s City Attorney sent a Letter to Thomas G.

Kennedy stating “Given the scope of the changes under either the Deletion Option or the June
30 submittal, it is my conclusion that this project should be processed as a ‘major change’
under Section 130. Under either proposal the applicant would be substantially changing the
configuration, building types, phasing, and total square footage of structures.” (R. 539
(emphasis added).)
8.

On February 28, 2017, the Moab City Council adopted Resolution No. 14-2017,

which authorized Moab’s Mayor to execute the Zoning Status Agreement. (R. 844, 850-55.)
9.

The City failed to follow its procedurally mandated processes for reviewing

Major Changes” for the major changes set forth in the Amendments, including, but not limited to
holding a public hearing. (See R. 844, 850-55.)
10.

On March 30, Plaintiffs filed both an appeal with the City and this action. 5 (R655-

656.) The City refused to hear Plaintiffs’ administrative appeal. Id.
STANDARD OF REVIEW 6
Under Utah Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 56(c), summary judgment may be granted
only if “the pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, together
with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the
5

Plaintiffs filed an action in this Court at the same time they filed their appeal with the City out of an abundance of caution,
given their concerns that the City, under SITLA’s influence, would shirk its responsibility to follow its land use appeal
procedures.

6

Defendants recite the correct standard of review applicable to the review of land use decisions, but then inexplicably frame
their argument as enforcement of a settlement agreement, not a land use decision. subject to the LUDMA and Moab’s Land Use
Code.

15

moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” When considering land use appeals,
the court’s review is limited to the record provided by the land use authority. Utah Code Ann. §
10-9a-801(8)(a)(i); Pac. W. Cmtys., Inc. v. Grantsville City, 2009 UT App 291, ¶ 17, 221 P.3d
280, 286.
ARGUMENT
I.

THIS COURT LACKS SUBJECT MATTER JURISDICTION TO RESOLVE
PLAINTIFFS’ CLAIMS UNTIL THE MOAB CITY APPEAL AUTHORITY HEARS
PLAINTIFFS’ ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.

It is well established by Utah law that “[n]o person may challenge in district court a
municipality's land use decision ... until that person has exhausted the person's administrative
remedies....” Utah Code Ann. § 10–9a–801(1). Similarly, Moab City Code states “[n]o person
may challenge in district court any decision under this chapter until that person has exhausted all
administrative remedies and a final decision is issued by the appeal body.” See MMC
17.65.080(C) (emphasis added). Administrative exhaustion is strictly enforced and failure to
satisfy a “precondition” to filing suit deprives 7 a court of subject matter jurisdiction. Patterson v.
Am. Fork City, 2003 UT 7, ¶ 17, 67 P.3d 466. Indeed, administrative processes may not be “leapfrogged over” so that a court may resolve grievances between the parties. See id. at ¶ 17.
Plaintiffs filed an appeal with Moab’s Land Use Appeal Authority which the City refused
to hear. (SOF at ¶ 10.) The City, rather than allowing the appeal to be heard, mischaracterized
and recast the issues and then refused to hear the appeal in an attempt to leap frog its own
administrative processes and proceed directly to this Court. Administrative remedies must be
exhausted for this Court to have jurisdiction. Lacking jurisdiction, this Court should remand the
7
While courts have recognized limited exceptions to this requirement, none are applicable in this case given that the City’s
administrative procedures are sufficient to resolve the issue. Id. at ¶ 18. Specifically, the Appeal Authority can determine that the
changes in the Amendments are “Major Changes” and that the City must abide its procedures.

16

issues back to the Moab Appeal Authority to hear the appeal and issue a final decision on the
land use determination.
II.

PLAINTIFFS ARE ENTITLED TO A WRIT OF MANDAMUS ORDERING
AN APPEAL TO THE CITY’S APPEAL AUTHORITY.
Under Utah Rule of Civil Procedure 65B, extraordinary relief may be granted “where an

inferior court, administrative agency, corporation or person has failed to perform an act required
by law as a duty of office, trust or station.” Utah R. Civ. P. 65B(d)(2)(B). Such relief is available
upon showing that the plaintiff has (1) a “clear legal right to the performance of the act
demanded” and (2) the existence of “a plain duty of the officer, board, or other tribunal to
perform as demanded.” Garcia v. Jones, 29 Utah 2d 409, 411, 510 P.2d 1099, 1100 (Utah 1973).
First, Plaintiffs have a clear legal right to an administrative appeal of the Moab’s land use
decision determining that the changes in the Amendments to Lionsback are “Minor Changes”
and not “Major Changes.” This determination is an interpretation and application of Moab City
Zoning Ordinances relating to specific changes on a specific project and subject to appeal under
Moab City’s Land Use Code. Defendants, wrongly, seek to reclassify Plaintiffs’ action as a
challenge to the Zoning Status Agreement. 8 In actuality, Plaintiffs challenge the interpretation
and application of Moab’s Land Use Ordinances to the changes in the Amendments. As noted

8

While Defendants repeatedly acknowledge that this Court is bound by rules applying to the appeal of land use
determinations under LUDMA, (See, e.g., Defs. Mot. Summ. J. at 4 & 12), Defendants also, when convenient to
their argument, seek to distance the issues in this case from LUDMA, by arguing that there was no land use
determination, but rather a “decision to resolve a more global dispute.” Id. at 24. The “dispute” to a large degree is
built upon the assertion that SITLA can arbitrarily withdraw from application of the local zoning laws, arguing its
zoning exemption (id., 15-16). It is not so easy as Defendants suggest as they agreed to annexation and entered into
contracts. For instance, in the Pre-Annexation Agreement, it was agreed by SITLA and LB Moab that the property
would be developed in accordance with “the applicable codes, laws, and regulations of the City of Moab.” (R. 1).
Further, given the property was annexed, a disconnection process would be required. (Id., 17.) Also see UCA 10-25-1 et seq.

17

above in Part I, supra, the parties are required to exhaustive administrative remedies before this
Court has jurisdiction. See MMC § 17.65.080(C). Under Moab’s City Code, not only do
Plaintiffs have the right to appeal a determination relating to a master plan development to the
Appeal Authority, such an appeal, and the issuance of a final decisions by the appeal body, is a
prerequisite to any appeal to this Court. Patterson 2003 UT 7, at ¶ 17. Moab’s Land Use Appeals
Authority has no discretion whether to hear an appeal relating to a land use determination.
Indeed, the Land Use Appeal Authority is a gatekeeper for this Court, the Land Use Appeal
Authority must issue a final decision.
Second, the Appeal Authority has a plain duty, and is in fact required, to hear the appeal
and issue a final decision. MMC § 17.65.080(C). Further, the Utah Supreme Court has recently
clarified that a City’s adjudicative body must produce findings of fact capable of review on
appeal, because the legislature has mandated that a reviewing court must uphold the decision of
an adjudicative body if it is “supported by substantial evidence.” See McElhaney v. City of Moab,
2017 UT 65, ¶ 41. In order to comply with the legislature’s mandate, Moab’s Land Use Appeal
Authority must make adequately detailed findings of fact and conclusions of law in a final
decision, in order to permit review by this Court. Id. When an adjudicative body fails to issue a
detailed decision, reviewing courts must remand the case to the adjudicative body to make such
findings. Id. at 42. In the present case, not only has the adjudicative body, Moab’s Land Use
Appeal Authority, failed to issue detailed findings, the Appeal Authority has refused to even
review the appeal as mandated by Moab City Code §§ 17.65.080(C) & 17.72.150(A)(1), and
Utah Code Annotated Section 10-9a-801.

18

In summary, Plaintiffs have a clear legal right to have their appeal heard by Moab’s Land
Use Appeal Authority and Moab’s Land Use Appeal Authority not only has a duty but is
required to hear the Appeal.
III.

THE CITY’S DETERMINATION THAT THE CHANGES TO THE LIONSBACK
DEVELOPMENT WERE MINOR AND NOT MAJOR CHANGES WAS
ARBITRARY AND CAPRICIOUS.

Administrative land use decisions are presumed valid and upheld unless the decision is
arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. Utah Code Ann. 10-9a-801(3)(a). A decision interpreting and
applying a municipal land use code is an administrative land use decision. See Bradley v. Payson
City Corp., 2003 UT 16, ¶ 15, 70 P.3d 47, 50 citing Brown v. Sandy City Bd. of Adjustment, 957
P.2d 2017, 210 n. 5 (Utah Ct. App. 1998). An administrative land use decision is not arbitrary
and capricious, if it is supported by “substantial evidence.” Bradley, 2003 UT 16, at ¶ 10.
Substantial evidence, in turn, is defined as “that quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is
adequate to convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion.” See Baker v. Park City Mun.
Corp., 2017 UT App 190, ¶ 17, 405 P.3d 962, 966. (emphasis added).
A. The Changes to the Lionsback Development are Major Changes under Moab City’s
Ordinances.
Moab City Ordinance Section 17.65.130 contemplates two procedures 9 for amending a
Master Plan Development based on the amount of change in the amendment. Moab City
Ordinances define “Major Changes” as “such as alterations in structural types, in the shapes
9

While the City Staff has discretion to determine whether an actual question about the changes are major or minor,
see MMC 17.65.130(A), that is not the issue before this Court. Rather the City entered into a settlement agreement
to characterize all Project changes (including future Project Changes, see ¶ 8) as minor, without regard to the
underlying facts of the change., “Minor Changes” must be due to an unforeseen circumstance, such as “engineering
requirements.” MMC §17.65.130. Indeed, even Moab’s City Attorney concluded that the changes set forth in the
Amendments to Lionsback “should be processed as a ‘major change’ under Section 130. Under either proposal the
applicant would be substantially changing the configuration, building types, phasing, and total square footage
of structures.” (SOF at ¶ 6, (emphasis added).) The City even arbitrarily ignored their own attorney’s clear advice
regarding the nature of the Amendments and the necessity to process them as “Major Changes.”

19

and arrangements of multiple lots and blocks, in the allocation of open space or other land
uses which increase density and/or intensity of the project, in project phasing, and all other
changes which significantly affect the overall design or intent of the project....”

MMC

§17.65.130 (B) (emphasis added). In contrast, “Minor Changes” contemplated under Moab City
Ordinances involve changes to the “location and placement of buildings.” MMC §17.65.130 (A).
As approved in the preliminary plan, phase one of Lionsback included a hotel of 41,360
square feet and a parking lot of 38,760 square feet (104 spaces). (SOF at ¶ 1.) The changes to the
development nearly double the square footage of the hotel to 81,688 square feet and more than
double the parking lot to 90,160 square feet (230 spaces). (SOF at ¶ 2.) Additional changes to the
proposed changes to the Lionsback development are set forth below:
Phase

One

Development and Phasing Agreement
Exhibit C Phasing Table Dated July
28, 2009
Hotel Facilities (50 Condo/Hotel Units),
Café. Convention Meeting Rooms,
Health Club, Bike Shop.
34 Single-family Lots
Water Tank

Two

29 Single-family lots

Three

52 Single-family lots

Amended Phasing Table MPD
Amendment Application dated June
28, 2016
Hotel Facilities with 150 Hotel
Rooms, Retail Space, Bike Storage,
Spa, Fitness Center and locker room,
Front Desk and lobby, Lobby Terrace,
Restaurant, Pool Area, Back of House
facilities, Conference Center, separate
Service Entry.
34 Single-family lots
Water Tank
53 Single-family lots
38 Single-family lots
18 Employee/Workforce
Units
35 Single-family lots

Four

33 Single-family lots

Five

40 Single-family lots
18 Employee/workforce Housing Units
Service Facility
Storage Facilities

20

28 Single-family lots
Service Facility
Storage Facilities.

Housing

(SOF at ¶ 3.) Further, the Amendments increase the hotel site by over an acre. (SOF at ¶ 4.) The
proposed changes in the Amendments also include changes to the layout of the development.
(SOF 5.) In summary, the proposed changes to Lionsback under the Amendments include
significantly increasing the size and layout of the hotel, dramatically increasing the size of the
parking lot, making numerous changes to the phasing of the project, increasing the hotel site by
over an acre, and making changes to the layout of the project. (SOF ¶¶ 2-6.)
Under the plain language of the Moab City Code Section 17.65.130, the proposed
changes to the development are “Major Changes,” requiring a public hearing. 10 Indeed, the
changes include significant changes to the layout of the project (consolidating several separate
buildings into a single large hotel), the size and square footage of hotel and parking lot (nearly
doubling the size of the hotel to 81,668 square feet and more than doubling the size of the
parking lot to 90,160 square feet), adding an acre to the hotel site, as well as numerous changes
to the various phases of the project (changing the number of residential lots in numerous phases,
changing when the employee housing would be built, and expanding the uses relating to the
hotel). No matter how inconvenient, an elephant cannot be deemed a mouse, just to avoid an
inconvenient but required public hearing. Indeed, Defendants attempt to keep the Court focused
on the notion that in the preliminary plan they received authorization for 50 commercial lodging
units and there are still only 50 commercial lodging units in the development, despite the
changes. This position is no more than an accounting trick. Indeed, despite the number of
commercial lodging units remaining the same, the size of the hotel and parking lot have basically

10

As explained by the City Attorney “In general the City process will entail the following: 1. review of the application for
completeness … 2. staff review … 3. public hearing (advisory review) before the Planning Commission; and… 4. decision by
City Council (the Land Use Authority).” (R. 459.)

21

doubled, and numerous changes were made to the phasing of the project. Under Moab’s Land
Use Code, these changes are “Major Changes” and must be processed as such.
B. The Determination that the Amendments to Lionsback were Minor and not Major
Changes is Not Supported by Substantial Evidence.
Substantial evidence is “that quantum and quality of relevant evidence that is adequate to
convince a reasonable mind to support a conclusion.” See Baker v. Park City Mun. Corp., 2017
UT App 190, ¶ 17, 405 P.3d 962, 966 (emphasis added). In other words, would a reasonable
mind determine that approximately doubling the square footage of the hotel and parking lot,
changing the layout of the development, and changing the phasing of the development, are
“Minor Changes” under Moab’s Land Use Code. 11 (SOF at ¶¶ 1-5.) A reasonable mind would
not. Indeed, even Moab’s own attorney concluded that the Amendments were substantial in
nature and should be processed as a “Major Change.” (SOF at ¶ 6.) Indeed, there is no quantum
or quality of evidence which supports or even could support that the substantial changes to
Lionsback are minor in nature, because they are not. The City Council, Moab’s land use
authority, did not base its decision on substantial evidence because a reasonable mind, reviewing
the changes, would not reach the same conclusion. Thus, the City Council’s decision was
arbitrary and capricious.
IV.

SITLA’S ZONING EXEMPTION IS IRRELEVANT, BECAUSE THE CITY IS
BOUND BY ITS ORDINANCES AND IS NOT FREE TO ENTER INTO A
CONTRACT TO AVOID THE APPLICATION OF ITS ORDINANCES.

Under Utah Code, “a municipality is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land
11

Under Moab’s Code “alterations in structural types, in the shapes and arrangements of multiple lots and blocks, in the
allocation of open space or other land uses which increase density and/or intensity of the project, in project phasing, and all other
changes which significantly affect the overall design or intent of the project” must be processed as “Major Changes” MMC §
17.65.130. The changes in the Amendments specifically included, without limitations, consolidating several separate buildings
into a single large hotel, nearly doubling the size of the hotel to 81,668 square feet, more than doubling the size of the parking lot
to 90,160 square feet, adding an acre to the hotel site, as well as numerous changes to the various phases of the project.

22

use ordinances and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those ordinances.” Utah Code
Ann. § 10-9a-509(2) (emphasis added). The Utah Court of Appeals and Moab’s own ordinances
provide the term “shall” indicates a mandatory provision. Brendle, 937 P.2d at 1047; Moab City
Code §1.04.020(24). Thus, whenever the word “shall” appears in Moab’s Code, the City is
required to undertake that procedure. Further, cities are “not at liberty to make land use
decisions in derogation…” of their ordinances. Springville Citizens for a Better Cmty. v. City of
Springville, 1999 UT 25, ¶ 30, 979 P.2d 332, 337 (emphasis added); see also Thurston v. Cache
County, 626 P.2d 440, 444–45 (Utah 1981). Indeed, cities are not free to “change the rules
halfway through the game.” See Brendle v. City of Draper, 937 P.2d 1044, 1048 (Utah Ct. App.
1997).
The City’s procedures for processing “Major Changes” to master planned developments
are mandatory and require public hearings. City Code provides, “Major changes, such as
alterations in structural types, in the shapes and arrangements of multiple lots and blocks, in the
allocation of open space or other land uses which increase density and/or intensity of the project,
in project phasing, and all other changes which significantly affect the overall design or intent of
the project shall be referred to the land use authority...” for review, which review includes a
public hearing. See MMC §§ 17.65.080 & 17.65.130.
Given the mandatory nature of the “Major Change” review process, even in contract, the
City is not free to disregard this process. Even though SITLA claims to be exempt 12 from the

12

SITLA presumes that its exemption from City zoning jurisdiction, and therefore the exemption of Lionsback from
zoning regulations is a foregone conclusion. While the history and documents relating to the settlement negotiations
with the City are irrelevant, SITLA’s presumption that it is exempt from City zoning relating to this project is far
from established. First, it must be noted that SITLA and the developer, LB Moab, are not the same entity and do not
enjoy the same rights, privileges and protections. Indeed, as the City’s attorney noted, “The developer has agreed to
be bound by City land use codes and ordinances. That’s contained in multiple binding documents including the pre-

23

scope of City zoning, such a claim is irrelevant because whether or not SITLA is bound, the City
remains bound to follow its ordinances as a public entity in the administration of public business
and is not free to make land use decisions or enter into contracts in derogation of its mandatory
ordinances. The City cannot abandon the procedure mandated for the approval and processing of
a master planned development, even if denying the public the right to participate in government
is less “risky” for SITLA and the developer. Defendants’ ignore the City’s obligation to comply
with the mandatory provisions of its ordinances. Indeed, if a city could disregard its zoning
ordinances every time it entered into a settlement agreement, developers would have no reason to
abide by City ordinances and could effectively rewrite the duly enacted ordinances of a city,
depriving citizens their voice, through entering settlement negotiations.
V.

THE ZONING STATUS AGREEMENT IS ILLEGAL BECAUSE THE CITY DOES
NOT HAVE THE POWER TO BYPASS ITS DULY ENACTED ZONING
ORDINANCE THROUGH ENTERING A CONTRACT.

A City’s actions are illegal where the actions constitute a violation of the City’s own
ordinances or Utah law. See Springville Citizens, 1999 UT 25, at ¶ 26. As discussed in Part IV,
supra, it is well established by Utah Courts that a City is not entitled to disregard its mandatory
ordinances. Springville Citizens, 1999 UT 25, at ¶ 30. Moab’s codes setting out the procedural
requirements, and public hearings, for major changes to a master plan development are
mandatory, and the City is obligated to follow them. Moab’s determination that the changes 13 to

annexation agreement between the developer, SITLA and the City and the development phasing agreement.” (R.
829.) Specifically, SITLA and LB Moab agreed to construct Lionsback subject to “the applicable codes, laws, and
regulations of the City of Moab.” (R. 1.) Whether or not SITLA has an exemption to local land use zoning generally,
SITLA agreed to the annexation of its property and placed limits on itself and Lionsback through various
agreements.
13

Which changes specifically included, without limitations, consolidating several separate buildings into a single large hotel,
nearly doubling the size of the hotel to 81,668 square feet, more than doubling the size of the parking lot to 90,160 square feet, as
well as numerous changes to the various phases of the project including, without limitations, changing the number of residential
lots in numerous phases, changing when the employee housing would be built, and expanding the uses relating to the hotel.

24

Lionsback were “Minor Changes” is contrary to the plain language of Moab’s ordinances and
LUDMA requiring cities to comply with mandatory provisions of a City’s ordinances. Utah
Code Ann. § 10-9a-509(2). As set forth in Part III, supra, the Amendments to Lionsback
included substantial changes to the development, including (1) nearly doubling the size of the
hotel, (2) more than doubling the parking capacity, and (3) making numerous changes to the
project’s phasing. While the City’s ordinances may be inconvenient 14 for SITLA and LB Moab,
the City is nevertheless bound to follow them.
Additionally, Plaintiffs, and each of them, have suffered prejudice due to the actions of
the City. Indeed, the City has denied them the right to participate in a public forum as mandated
Moab’s Land Use Code. See MMC §§ 17.65.080 & 17.65.130. Defendants, under pressure from
SITLA and LB Moab who deem public input as “risky” to their development and financial gain,
deprived the public of its right to participate. (R. 552.) Denying public participation is
particularly prejudicial in this case given the controversial enactment of the decision. 15
CONCLUSION
First, as a preliminary procedural matter, this Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction and
may not enter summary judgment. Lacking subject matter jurisdiction, this Court should remand
the issues back to the Moab Appeal Authority to issue a final decision on the land use
determination. Indeed, the issues in this case must proceed through the proper procedures,

14

To the extent SITLA portrays itself as a victim of the City’s processes, the Utah Supreme Court has long held that “one who
deals with a municipal corporation does so at his peril. He is presumed to know the municipal ordinances controlling the
administration of public business and the limitations on the powers and authority of the City officers he is dealing with.”
Thatcher Chem. Co. v. Salt Lake City Corp., 21 Utah 2d 355, 358, 445 P.2d 769, 771 (1968).
15

At the February 28, 2017, City Council meeting where the decision challenged in this case was approved by a 3 to 2 vote,
(SOF at ¶ 8.), immediately following the reading of the vote, Councilmember Ershadi, who had been one of the affirming votes,
stated “I want to change my vote to no. I just can’t. I have too many unanswered questions about this.” (SOF at ¶ 8.)
Councilmember Ershadi’s desire to change her vote stresses the importance of public participation regarding the substantial
changes being requested in the Amendments to assist the elected decision makers.

25

namely, Moab’s land use appeal process, before this Court has jurisdiction. Alternatively,
Defendants are not entitled to summary judgement as a matter of law because the City’s decision
was not based on substantial evidence, as the City illegally, capriciously and arbitrarily has
classified all proposed current and future changes as “minor” irrespective of the actual
underlying facts. Further, Moab, like all municipalities, is bound to follow its own ordinances
and cannot deprive the public their right to participate in government through contracts with a
developer. For these reasons, Defendants’ motion should be denied.
DATED this 20th day of February, 2018.
/s/ Barbara K. Polich
Attorney for Plaintiffs

26

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on the 20th day of February, 2018, I caused the foregoing
MEMORANDUM IN OPPOSITION TO MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGEMENT to
be served on the following parties via the Court’s electronic filing system:
Christopher G. McAnany
Dufford, Waldeck, Milburn & Krohn, LLP
744 Horizon Court, Suite 300
Grand Junction, CO 81506
Attorney for Defendants
Jody K. Burnett
Robert C. Keller
Snow Christensen & Martineau
10 Exchange Place, 11th Floor
P.O. Box 45000
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111

/s/ Barbara K. Polich
Attorney for Plaintiffs

4853-1254-8939, v. 1

27

____

