March 6, 2022
TO:

Charles Williamson, Stream Alteration Specialist
Utah Division of Water Rights

RE:

Stream Channel Alteration No. 22-57-05SA (Smith Creek)
Tree Farm LLC & Jesse Lassley, Manager

Dear Mr. Williamson,
I am writing to voice my opposition to the stream channel alteration request no. 22-57-05SA for
Smith Creek by Tree Farm LLC. I ask that you deny this request. The Smith Creek stream does
not need to be altered nor covered in this location.
This section of the stream is an important water source for wildlife; the stream bed runs through
a tree grove obscured by vegitation, and features shallow slopes which facilitate access. Over
the years, particularly in winter, I have personally seen it used by deer and moose, and the area
is a well-known wintering area for elk. While Smith Creek does continue up Mount Aire canyon
unencumbered, it flows alongside a well-travelled residential road, and the stream bed does not
offer any protection for wildlife. Additionally, the banks become much steeper, in many places
ten or more feet below the roadside. During winter especially, the stream bed seems to be
generally impassible by wildlife. If the stream were covered in the grove, as proposed by Tree
Farm, it could adversely affect the wildlife that depend on it.
I would also like to call attention to the fact that Tree Farm does not have approval from the
State of Utah DOGM to construct a mine in this location. Nor does it have approval from Salt
Lake County. Nor does it have approval from other agencies. Indeed, Tree Farm’s Small Mine
Operation proposal has already been denied by the State, and the appeals process has begun.
Salt Lake County is working through zoning ordinance amendments that would restrict a new
mine from ever being built in this area. Tree Farm faces stiff opposition from the public, many
community councils, many environmental groups including Save Our Canyon, and the
municipalities of Salt Lake City and the City of Millcreek. Tthe latter three, as well as an adjacent
landowner, have all retained independent legal counsel to oppose the actions of this company in
this location. Tree Farm does not own the land where the stream alteration would occur, and the
land that Tree Farm does own may never be approved for a mine.
In short, it seems extremely premature and entirely unjustified for Tree Farm to be permitted to
make any stream alteration in this location. Please deny this request at this time.
Regards
Justin Wilde
PO Box 520002
SLC UT 84152

Cc:
Nicole Fresard, Senior Project Manager, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
Brian Steed, Director, Department of Natural Resources
Scott Baird, Director, Salt Lake County Public Works and Municipal Services
Laura Briefer, Director, Salt Lake City Public Utilities

