FILED
JANUARY 17 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING
Julie Carter <juliecarter@utah.gov>

Mt. Aire as a home away from home
W EUGENE GIBBONS <evelyngene@msn.com>
To: "juliecarter@utah.gov" <juliecarter@utah.gov>

Mon, Jan 17, 2022 at 4:03 PM

Board of Oil, Gas and Mining, Department of Natural Resources, State of Utah with A en on to
Julie Carter
A en on: Julie Carter
January 17, 2022
The proposal of the mine adjacent to I-80 is of great concern to our family. We and our extended
family have enjoyed various homes since the 1880's in the Mt. Aire Canyon and our present home
would be greatly aﬀected by the dangers associated with a mine. Our first concern has to do with
our exit of #132 Ranch Exit and the bridge that crosses the freeway at that point. The bridge has
significant problems already from the trucks crossing to the mine on the opposite side of Parleys
Canyon. We are troubled by the an cipated loss of our spring water which we rely upon. The
wildlife and pris ne nature of our canyon would be aﬀected by this mine as the dynamite, dust,
shaking of the earth, and traﬃc associated with it, would damage and forever change the nature
of the area.
Mt. Aire was developed as a recrea onal retreat in the 1800's and was easily accessed by the
people in Salt Lake City. At one point in me there was even a gathering center for guests and
then people from the city would come and put-up tents to stay for the weekend or for the
summer. Eventually, the land was purchased by individual families and became a locked
community. To disturb the purpose of the use of Mt. Aire by a commercial endeavor will be
incongruent and not in keeping with family usage for which the canyon was designed. It is
incomprehensible that the State of Utah would want the major corridor into the Salt Lake valley
become an eye sore and displeasing usage of the canyon. The mine would be located 3 miles
from the mouth of Parley's Canyon and thus the pollu on would enter the valley and add to the
problem that already exists at certain mes of the year.
Please though ully consider our concerns.
Respec ully,
W. Eugene and Evelyn R. Gibbons

