FILED
FEBRUARY 24 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

Scott. D. Williams, M.D.
316 K Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103
801 580-3127
sdwilli@gmail.com

February 24, 2022

Dear Members of the Board of the Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining,

I’m writing with regards to Docket No. 2022-002- Request for Agency Action of TREE FARM, LLC for a
declaratory ruling regarding (the completeness of Tree Farm’s NOI-SMO S/035/0053.
On December 7, 2021, DOGM Director John Baza sent a letter to Jesse Lassley of Tree Farm, LLC,
informing him that the Division was denying Tree Farm’s SMO NOI. Tree Farm LLC has appealed this
decision to you, the DOGM board. Applicable Utah law doesn’t appear to specifically address the
simultaneous submission of an SMO as the initial phase of a planned LMO. So you, as the quasi-judicial
body tasked with deciding whether to uphold the Division’s decision, are going to have make your ruling
based on your interpretation of the intent of the applicable statutes and rules, the intent of the Division,
the intent of Tree Farm LLC, and common sense.
Intent of Utah Code
What was the intent of the legislature in saying that “the operator shall file a notice of intention for each
individual mining operation with the division” 40-8-13 (1)(a)? The term “each individual mining operation”
clearly refers to separate and distinct projects. So, the only logical explanation is that legislators did not
intend to create a process where an SMO NOI and LMO NOI were submitted simultaneously as part of a
phased development of a mining operation on a single parcel of property.
Intent of Administrative Rules
What was the intent of the DOGM Board in promulgating separate rules for SMO and LMO, stating the
following:
R 647-1-101 “repetition intended to benefit the operator by putting all rules relevant to a type of operation
in the introductory section and in the section on that type of operation”?
R 647-1-102 “Operators should refer to the section of these rules which apply to the type of operations
(e.g. exploration. Small mining operations, OR large mining operations) being conducted or proposed.
Again, it seems clear that SMOs and LMOs are considered separate “types” of mining operations by the
board and the division and that an SMO NOI was never intended to be processed as phase 1 of an LMO
NOI.
Intent of Tree Farm
What was Tree Farm’s intention when they submitted a 20-acre SMO NOI and an LMO NOI on November
12, 2021 for the same parcels of property?
In the LMO NOI the total area of the owned parcels is 638 acres and the total mined area is specified as
617 acres, 21 acres less than the total area. And on the map on page 10 of Tree Farm’s SMO NOI, the
20-acre area is clearly labeled as the “Plant and Stockpile Location”. This would seem to support the

notion that Tree Farm LLC’s proposed SMO and LMO are, in fact, part of a single mining operation and
not two “types” of mining operations as described in the statute and rule.
Intent of the Division
The use of the phrase “the Division hereby denies Tree Farm LLC’s Small Mine NOI” in Mr. Baza’s letter
was an unfortunate choice of words because, in reality, the SMO NOI was not “denied” as there had not
yet been a full review by staff and no final determination as to its completeness had been made. Rather
the Division made a decision to forego further review and processing of Tree Farm’s SMO NOI “and turn
all focus and attention to the expedient review and processing of Tree Farm LLC’s Large Mine NOI”.
The only conclusion then is that Tree Farm intended from the outset to develop a single large mining
operation. And the SMO NOI was a way to get a jump start on their LMO plans without going through the
level of DOGM staff review or the public input process required for an LMO. The Division, being aware of
this, and relying on the intent of the statute and the rules as described above, made the common sense
decision to review the Tree Farm LLC proposal as a Large Mining Operation.
I therefore respectfully request that you rule in favor of the Division’s decision to forego the review of the
SMO NOI.

Sincerely,

Scott Williams

` Page 2

