Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene

Millcreek

H. Michael Keller # 1784
Tanner J. Bean #17128
FABIAN VANCOTT
215 South State Street, Suite 1200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
801-574-2622
mkeller@fabianvancott.com
tbean@fabianvancott.com
Counsel for Millcreek

FILED
FEBRUARY 10 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

BEFORE THE BOARD OF OIL, GAS, AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
STATE OF UTAH
In the Matter of:
Denial of Notice of Intentional to
Commence Small Mining
Operations, Tree Farm LLC, Silver
Mine, S/035/0053, Task ID# 10588,
Salt Lake County, Utah

REPLY MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT
OF THE CITY OF MILLCREEK’S
PETITION TO INTERVENE
Docket No. 2022-002
Cause No. S/035/0053

Request for Agency Action
Filing Date: January 10, 2022
Pursuant to Utah Administrative Code § R641-103-100, the City of Millcreek
(“Millcreek”), a Utah municipal corporation, submits this Reply Memorandum in Support of its
Petition to Intervene.
ARGUMENT FOR INTERVENTION
Granting Millcreek’s Petition to Intervene so Millcreek can represent the legitimate and
unique position of the city and its residents is proper. It is supported by all relevant tests for
Millcreek’s standing in this matter. Moreover, the fact that Tree Farm, LLC (“Tree Farm”) has
filed a notice of Non-Opposition to all other Petitions to Intervene filed in this matter, including
that of another municipality, Salt Lake City, is further reason to grant Millcreek’s Petition to
Intervene.

Millcreek’s Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene
February 10, 2022
Tree Farm’s Opposition ignores the fundamental underlying fact central to disposition of
the matter before the Board: Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI is part and parcel of its
contemporaneously filed Large Mine NOI. In reality, it is a device and scheme to circumvent the
statutory requirement, Utah Code § 40-8-7(1)(g), that large mining operations not commence
until an NOI has been approved by the Division.
Just as any other entity or person, Millcreek has a legal right conferred by the Utah
Mined Land Reclamation Act, Utah Code § 40-8-13(6), to participate in the public process for
review of NOIs for large mining operations under the Act prior to the commencement of the
mining operations. Allowing Tree Farm to commence mining operations before its NOI
undergoes the requisite regulatory review and public participation process required for large
mining operations substantially and adversely affects Millcreek’s legal rights.
I.

Millcreek Has Standing to Intervene Under the Traditional Test.
Tree Farm’s Opposition does not properly apply the traditional standing test, see Utah

Chapter of Sierra Club v. Utah Air Quality Bd., 2006 UT 74, ¶ 19, 148 P.3d 960, to the two
distinct legal interests asserted by Millcreek: (1) Millcreek’s legitimate concerns for the adverse
impacts to the health, safety, and general welfare of its community and its residents posed by
existing and Tree Farm’s proposed mining operations in Parleys Canyon, in particular, fugitive
dust emanating from those operations and transported by canyon winds into the Millcreek
community, and (2) Millcreek’s right to participate in the public review and comment process
provided under the Utah Mined Land Reclamation Act, Utah Code § 40-8-1 et seq., for the
Division’s review of Large Mine NOIs prior to the commencement of any proposed mining
operations.

2

Millcreek’s Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene
February 10, 2022
Tree Farm’s Opposition makes no attempt to apply the traditional test to Millcreek’s
second interest and argues only that Millcreek has no legal interest in public review and
comment on a Small Mine NOI. Tree Farm ignores Millcreek’s position that Tree Farm’s Small
Mine NOI and Large Mine NOI are the same proposed “Silver Mine” mining operation and
should be reviewed and processed under the procedures of the Utah Mined Land Reclamation
Act applicable to large mining operations. Regardless, the appropriate question before the Board
on Millcreek’s Petition to Intervene is whether Millcreek has the ability to intervene to vindicate
its own merits view of the statute which grants the city and its residents a legal interest in public
review and comment prior to commencement of any proposed large mining operations. When
properly viewed through this lens, Millcreek’s standing is manifest.
A case cited by Tree Farm in its Opposition demonstrates this. In Soc’y of Pro.
Journalists, Utah Chapter v. Bullock, 743 P.2d 1166, 1173 (Utah 1987), a group sought to
vindicate its interest in attending a court proceeding. The court determined this interest, and the
possibility of being denied the court access, granted the group standing. Id. at 1173-76. The court
observed that the “interest in access asserted by the Society and the other petitioners is one
shared by all members of the public. . . . And whenever a proceeding is closed, all members of
the public can be said to have their access interest adversely affected.” Id. at 1173. The court
found that “the requirement of adverse impact is met by anyone who claims a right of access to a
judicial proceeding and then actually takes steps to exercise that right but is denied access. . . .
one who has a right to attend and appears through counsel to protest closure has taken steps to
assert an access interest.” Id. at 1174. Given this, the court found the requirements for standing
were “easily met” because there was a “direct causal connection between the threatened action of
the judge and the injury suffered—an inability to exercise access rights . . .” and “the relief

3

Millcreek’s Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene
February 10, 2022
sought—opening of the proceeding—would provide a direct remedy for the anticipated injury.”
Id. This conclusion extended to the group’s associational standing, as well. Because “any
member of the public, had the right to . . . assert a claim of access to the court proceedings . . .
when the Society appeared on behalf of its members to assert an access interest . . . the . . . test
for associational standing was met.” Id. at 1175.
So, too, here. Millcreek’s asserted interest in public review and comment in the Large
Mine NOI process is no different from the group’s interest in access in Soc’y of Pro. Journalists,
Utah Chapter. Millcreek’s intervention is proper because (1) its interest will be adversely
affected by Tree Farm’s Request for Agency Action if Tree Farm prevails in foreclosing public
review and comment prior to commencement of mining operations through the artifice of filing a
Small Mine NOI within the footprint of its Large Mine NOI, (2) the causal relationship between
Millcreek’s lack of access to public review and comment and Tree Farm’s desired outcome is
clear, and (3) the Board plainly has the ability to provide Millcreek its remedy of public review
and comment by rejecting Tree Farms’ position that its Small Mine NOI should be processed for
the same “Silver Mine” mining operation proposed under its Large Mine NOI.
Regarding Millcreek’s additional interest in the health, safety, and general welfare of its
community, the traditional standing test is also met. Millcreek’s Petition to Intervene adequately
demonstrates the city and its residents will be adversely affected by the outcome of Tree Farm’s
Request for Agency Action. If Tree Farm is permitted to commence mining under its improper
Small Mine NOI, fugitive dust emanating from the mining operation will be transported into
Millcreek’s airshed and onto properties within Millcreek, adversely affecting Millcreek and the
health, safety, and welfare of its residents. That this interest is supported by a Declaration from

4

Millcreek’s Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene
February 10, 2022
the Mayor of Millcreek1 and that the Mayor has spoken publicly regarding intervention in this
matter2 does nothing to undermine that interest in health, safety, and welfare. The causal
connection between permitting mining under the improper Small Mine NOI and the resulting
fugitive dust is apparent and upholding the Division’s denial of the Small Mine NOI will prevent
the injury caused by the fugitive dust.
II.

Millcreek Has Standing to Intervene Under the Alternative Test.
Millcreek also has standing to intervene under the alternative test. Millcreek is an

appropriate party to raise the legal interests it has raised before the Board. It plainly has “the
interest necessary to effectively assist the court in developing and reviewing all relevant legal
and factual questions,” and Millcreek’s city-specific issues are “unlikely to be raised” if
Millcreek is denied standing. Utah Chapter of Sierra Club, 2006 UT 74, ¶¶ 36, 42 (finding the
Sierra Club had “an interest in ensuring that the construction and the operation of the plant
comply with all applicable state and federal environmental laws as well as with state
administrative procedures” . . . “as an entity focused on protecting the environment, the Sierra
Club has the interest and expertise necessary to investigate and review all relevant legal and
factual questions relating to the plant.”) It is hard to imagine a party more focused and
responsive to the residents of Millcreek’s concerns about Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI than the
city itself. Even if there were one, “the notion that a court must find the most appropriate party,

1

Millcreek rejects Tree Farm’s argument that Millcreek’s pursuit of the Petition to
Intervene is unauthorized and is being driven only by Mayor Silvestrini. This matter has been
thoroughly discussed and vetted through the City Council of Millcreek, as minutes of the
Council December 13, 2021, and January 10, 2022 would show.
2
Tree Farm’s Opposition quotes Mayor Silvestrini from a Millcreek townhall meeting held
on December 21, 2021. While these comments candidly addressed members of the public on
potential challenges to standing, these comments in no way concede that Millcreek lacks
standing to intervene in this matter. They merely acknowledge what may be considerations this
Board entertains on a motion to intervene.
5

Millcreek’s Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene
February 10, 2022
thereby limiting standing under the alternative criteria to only one party in any given case, is
unnecessary and counter-productive.” Id. at ¶ 36.
Further, Tree Farm’s Request for Agency Action raises issues of sufficient public
importance in and of itself as to merit Millcreek’s standing. As in Utah Chapter of Sierra Club,
which involved the emission of hazardous chemicals in proximity to “homes and recreational
areas,” see id. at ¶ 44, the proposed mining operation’s potential for harmful fugitive dust
emissions in proximity to Millcreek residents’ homes is an issue of sufficient of public
importance. This matter also bears the obvious public issue of public access to the Large Mine
NOI review and comment process prior to commencement of mining operation at the proposed
“Silver Mine.” Just as in Utah Chapter of Sierra Club, to ensure the Board complies with all
applicable laws relating to Tree Farm’s mining operations, “it is important to give the
opportunity to be heard to those persons who will be directly affected” by Tree Farm skirting the
rules regarding Large Mine NOIs. Id.
CONCLUSION AND REQUEST FOR RELIEF
Based on the foregoing, Millcreek respectfully requests that this Petition to Intervene be
granted, that the Board consider Millcreek’s arguments set forth in its initial brief in support of
the Division’s denial of Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI, and that the Board sustain the Division’s
denial of Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI and not allow commencement of mining operations
under the Small Mine NOI.

Dated: February 10, 2022
______________________________
H. Michael Keller # 1784
Tanner J. Bean #17128
6

Millcreek’s Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene
February 10, 2022
FABIAN VANCOTT
215 South State Street, Suite 1200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
801-574-2622
mkeller@fabianvancott.com
tbean@fabianvancott.com
Counsel for Millcreek

7

Millcreek’s Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene
February 10, 2022

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
On this 10th day of February 2022, the undersigned caused the foregoing REPLY
MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF THE CITY OF MILLCREEK’S PETITION TO
INTERVENE to be served accordingly:
By email and mail to:
Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Attn: Julie Ann Carter
PO Box 145801
Salt Lake City, UT 84114
juliecarter@utah.gov
Secretary for the Board of Oil, Gas, and Mining
By email to:
Stephen E.W. Hale
Daniel A. Jensen
Justin P. Matkin
Kassidy J. Wallin
Parr Brown Gee & Loveless, P.C.
101 S. 200 E., Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
shale@parrbrown.com
djensen@parrbrown.com
jmatkin@parrbrown.com
kwalling@parrbrown.com
Attorneys for Tree Farm LLC
Haley Sousa
Charles A. Lyons
Assistant Attorneys General
Utah Attorney General’s Office, Natural Resources Division
1594 W. North Temple #300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
hsousa@agutah.gov
calyons@agutah.gov
Attorneys for Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Michael E. Begley
Assistant Attorney General
8

Millcreek’s Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene
February 10, 2022
Utah Attorney General’s Office, Natural Resources Division
1594 W. North Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
mbegley@agutah.gov
Attorney for the Utah Board of Oil, Gas and Mining
United States of America, Forest Service
c/o Rebecca Hotze
c/o Roger Kesterson
857 W South Jordan Pkwy
South Jordan, UT 84095
Rebecca.hotze@usda.gov
Roger.kesterson@usda.gov
United States of America, BLM
c/o Greg Sheehan
440 W 200 S # 500
Salt Lake City, UT 84101
Blm_ut_so_public_room@blm.gov
Evan S. Strassberg
Steven J. Joffee
Michael Best
170 South Main Street, Suite 1000
Salt Lake City, UT 84101
esstrassberg@michaelbest.com
sjoffee@michaelbest.com
Attorneys for Richards Family Partnership
Rulon Harper
c/o Amber Harper
6085 S Tolcate Woods Ln.
Holladay, UT 84121
amber@harpercompaniesinc.com
Salt Lake County
c/o Scott Baird, Director Public Works
2001 S State Street, #N3-600
Salt Lake City, UT 84190-3050
scottbaird@slco.org
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
c/o Lupita McClenning, Planning and Development, Director
c/o Greg Baptist, Stormwater Inspection Supervisor
2001 S State, #N 3-600
Salt Lake City, UT 84190
9

Millcreek’s Reply in Support of Petition to Intervene
February 10, 2022
lmcclenning@msd.utah.gov
gbaptist@msd.utah.gov
Janelle Eurick Bauer
Timothy Smith
Jones Waldo
170 S. Main Street, Suite 1500
Salt Lake City, UT 84101
jbauer@joneswaldo.com
tsmith@joneswaldo.com
Attorneys for Save Our Canyons
E. Russell Vetter
Salt Lake City Corporation
Rusty.vetter@slcgov.com
Attorney for Salt Lake City Corporation

/s/ Tanner J. Bean
Tanner J. Bean

10

