January 219, 2022
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
P.O Box 145801
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-5801
Att: Julie Carter
Re: Board Meeting January 26th, 2022 – Parley’s Canyon Mine
Dear Ms. Carter,

FILED
JANUARY 19 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

I am concerned about many, many aspects of Tree Farm, LLC’s filings for mining in Parley’s Canyon, adjacent to Mt. Aire
Canyon, alongside 1-80, and negatively impacting recreational and wildlife areas in the shadow of Grandeur Peak. I
concur with the concerns of many of my Mt. Aire neighboring property owners on a multiplicity of pertinent points
made regarding enhanced risks of wildfires, impacts on watershed and water availability, potential risks to Mt. Aire
structures during blasting, and many more. Their letters have expressed these and other concerns very well, and I agree
with those.
I would like to underline the concerns for fugitive dust from mining operations, both broadly as it impacts water quality
and water use, and specifically as it impacts populations nearby with the known carcinogen silica. The CDC classified
silica dust as a known human carcinogen in 1997. I ask you as the State’s arbiter of Oil, Gas and Mining to consider the
impact of mining regulations you make, and the integrity with which you enforce those standards, where do they lead?
And what is the resulting quality-of-life impact for citizens of this state in consequence of those regulations?
My daughter in law lost her father a year ago to pancreatic cancer. Recently retired and in his mid 70s, Don was a
husband, father and grandfather, and a builder of community and roads in Richfield and the surrounding Sevier Valley.
Born and raised there, he was integral to good things happening in his hometown since his early childhood. Now he is
yet another “downwinder” gone to soon. Monetary compensation to “downwinders” provided does not prolong a lives
affected by poor decisions made several decades ago. Don’s best friend and brother-in-law, Bill, followed him in death-also from cancer--two months after he passed. How many southern Utahns have paid the ultimate price for short
sighted judgments made about nuclear testing? What could have been done differently? It is too late to change the
cascading effects that fallout from those tests have had on the health of those exposed; generations were irreparably
affected. Like a shadow looming all his life, Don lived knowing he could be one among that count. Now his children,
grandchildren, neighbors, remaining siblings, and others are left with compensation but without the irreplaceable gift of
time with him. His widow, Marylene, soldiers on; like others who also grew up in southern Utah in that era of nuclear
testing, she may yet be another cancer statistic linked to history no one can change. That history and its effects was
written when those poor decisions were made.
But with our current knowledge of the effects of silica dust and its impacts on the health of those who breathe it in, your
institution exists in a unique position; you can make a better decision in the current century. You can set standards that
protect health. You can enforce fugitive dust mitigation and insist that such mining operations locate further from
population centers, thereby lowering our exposure to known carcinogens. The results can benefit all of us with healthier
futures, longer lives, and time spent with family and friends in lives not cut short by preventable cancer incidence. Are
you interested in preserving quality of life? Can anyone compensate for time lost in a life cut short? What is it worth?
What will DOGM do to adjust accordingly to known facts about air quality and silica’s effects on our health?
Begin in Salt Lake County, with Tree Farm, LLC’s proposed mine and all its accompanying risks. Southern Utah residents
paid a heavy price because we did not know, and we did not act to prevent the tragic loss of life that continues for
innocent “down-winders.” I live “down wind” of Parley’s Canyon, in the Salt Lake Valley. My kids and grandkids live
downwind of Tree Farm LLC’s proposed “super”-mine. My neighbors, school children, family members, health care
providers, all of us—we live down wind from what Mr. Lassley is planning. Please, take a stand for our health and safety.
Take a stand to act to prevent this.
Thank you,
Luanne E. Schmidt, 2238 E. Blaine Avenue, SLC, UT 84108
cc: Governor Spencer Cox, Salt Lake City Mayor Erin Mendenhall, Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson

