From: Mariah Espinal <MEspinal@slco.org>
To: Jenny Wilson <JWilson@slco.org>
Cc: Kerri Nakamura <KNakamura@slco.org>, Katy Fleury <KFleury@slco.org>, Michelle Hicks
<MHicks@slco.org>, Joseph Genda <JGenda@slco.org>, "David Schuld"
<DSchuld@slco.org>, Eric Hutchings <EHutchings@slco.org>, "Efren Corado Garcia"
<ECGarcia@slco.org>
Subject: News Clips
Date: Thu, 07 Apr 2022 11:59:24 -0600
Importance: Normal

Mayor Jenny Wilson
SL County bans mining in forestry, recreation areas — but will the ordinance last? ( KSL, Carter Williams)
A few hours before Tuesday's meeting, Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson reiterated her support of the
mining ban, urging the council to go ahead with the ordinance.
SL County Council votes unanimously to ban mining in area canyons, including Parleys (KSL, Larry D. Curtis)
The quarry was opposed in writing by hundreds of citizens and the council’s decision was praised by Salt Lake
County Mayor Jenny Wilson.
Salt Lake County Council votes to ban mining in recreation areas (KSL AM, Kira Hoffelmeyer)
Today, Salt Lake County took an active measure to prohibit future mining in the Wasatch range,” said Salt Lake
County Mayor Jenny Wilson in a statement. “The amendment supported by the County Council today seeks to
eliminate mining and mineral extraction in the Wasatch Canyons
Salt Lake County passes amendment to ban mining in Wasatch Foothills, Canyons Overlay Zone (Gephardt
Daily, Staff Member)
Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson applauded the County Council’s action in a statement following the vote.
Salt Lake County Council bans mining in Parleys Canyon, other areas (Fox 13, Emily Tencer, Spencer Burt)
Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson has been pushing for this, and she said the county received more than
1,000 public comments ahead of Tuesday's vote.
No mining in Salt Lake County canyons after council weighs environmental impacts (KUER 90.1, Emily Means)
Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson also showed her support for the ban. “Active measures are necessary to
protect our canyon environment and preserve recreation opportunities,” Wilson said in a statement. “Today, Salt
Lake County took an active measure to prohibit future mining in the Wasatch range.”

Salt Lake County
46% of lesbian, gay or bisexual teens contemplated suicide in 2021, CDC says (ABC 4, Lena Takada)
David Christensen, the Treatment Supervisor at Salt Lake County Youth Services said support from family can
help teens understand they are loved and they belong.

Utah
Agriculture officials concerned of potential disease outbreak in Utah herd cattle (KSL, Ashley Imlay)
The Utah Department of Agriculture and Food is quarantining affected animals and "will place the herds with
positive tests on a plan to stop the spread of the disease," the release states.

Northern Utah homeowner tears out lawn after tough water restrictions put in place(KSL, Matt Rascon)
Paxman said the restrictions could have been even worse, if not for an agreement to buy 14,000-acre feet of
water from the Provo River from the Central Utah Water Conservancy District. The first agreement of its kind
for the districts.
Utah passes three new laws affecting local hunters (ABC 4, Vivian Chow)
During the 2022 legislative session, Gov. Spencer Cox signed three bills into law that will be impacting hunters
and outdoor recreation in Utah.
Commissioner says NBA will keep 2023 All-Star Game in Utah (Lehi Free Press, Adam Torkidson)
Salt Lake County witnessed only an 18.5 percent gain throughout the same time period.
Free Fare February was officially UTA's busiest month in 2 years (KSL, Carter Williams)
"Free Fare February was a success," said Carlton Christensen, the chairman of UTA's board of trustees, in a
statement Wednesday. "Transit is part of a healthier, vibrant quality of life in Utah.
Using prescribed burns to prevent catastrophic wildfires in Utah (Fox 13, Brian Schnee)
State Fire Management Officer for Bureau of Land Management Utah. “We treat preventatively thru fuels
management more acres than we burn annually from wildfires in Utah.”

Mariah Espinal

Constituent Affairs
Mayor’s Office
385-468-7000
mespinal@slco.org

