The following additional citizens have submitted the form email below. These
submissions were received after the amended Mountainous Planning District
Planning Commission packet was posted on the Utah Public Notice website on
February 2, 2022.
Charles Huff, Laura Monroya, Verla Whippen, Eileen Barlage, Paul Kalka, Meagan Oltman, Keith Motley,
Karen Collett, Carolyn Lewis, Andrew Lewis, Monique Stark, Jim Loveland, James McCloskey, Rachael
Neumann, Phyllis Anderson, Jasmine Sayre, Matthew Vukin, Erik Badger, Kristy Carlson, John Barrett,
Sarah Hallam, Taylor Cox, Lucy Nebeker, Whitney Brady, Ian Zalles, Terra Pace, Tina Black, Annecia
Wolsey, Stephanie Shotorbani, Jadwiga Frasol, Hannah Thielges, Ellen Young, Annie Glenn, Travis Van
den Broeke, David Lloyd, Meisha Thomas, Ross Miller, Tony Aversano, Alison Vallejo, Catherine Lilly, Eric
Migacz, Karen Migacz, Paula Child, Carol Raborn, Jess Nutt, Jared Crocker, Magali Lequient, Sheila
Walsh-McDonald, Amy Schooler, Madisyn Kohler, Leah Pelz, Austin Kohler, Debasish Nayak, Rebecka
Olivares, Marie Hotta, Jane Craigo, Olivia Ward, Zach McClellan, Rachel Montague, Beth Lacarra, Audrey
Morrison, Emily Mecham, Katherine Meyr, Johanna Purdy, Sean Berry, Robin Shea, Courtney Rada, Deb
DenBraber, Megan Dingman, Jacee Andersen, Jamie Lyon, Haley Danylchuk, Casey Sanders, Margaret
Paydar, Katelyn Smith, Maya Parsons, Natalie Green, Sean Erickson, Ian Ehrlich, Natasha Crocker, Rob
Lea, Catherine Anderson, Dane Taylor, Sharon Mancini, Thomas Grant, Charlotte Localio, Regan Leavitt,
Taylor Wagner, Danielle McGuire, Andrea Fredrick, Jake Davies, Megan Christensen, Emily Draper, Suzie
Ellison, Caroline Gleich, Eliza Smith, Michael Margolies, Steven Breitling, Sarah Hancock, Juli Gerritsen,
Noah Horvath, Kalie Kocherhans, Kirtly Maxfield, Patrick DePaulis, Tracie DePaulis, Mary Paul, Rosie
Grant, Kelley Mills, Lisa Mills.

Form email submitted by above list of citizens
Dear SLCo MPD and Commission Wendy Gurr,
Dear Salt Lake Co. Mountainous Planning District and County Planning Commissioners,
Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air
quality and sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the
economic future of our state. To this end, I support the leadership of Salt Lake County’s Mountains
Planning District and the Salt Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation
Zones.
I support the following revisions of Salt Lake County Ordinances:
Prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or
concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand,
gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay
Zone."
Establish a process for the County planning director to decide whether or not a use not listed is
prohibited or related to a conditional or permitted use in the relevant ordinances.
A 600 plus acres mine, or any industrialization of the Wasatch’s watershed is inconsistent with the
values of our communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this
proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value
the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.

The following additional citizens submitted the form email and added the
following additional comments:
Linda Rauter
Our daughter lives in Herriman. We have greatly appreciated the beautiful wilderness areas so near to
her home. The mountains are beautiful and provide habitat for large numbers of wildlife. When the
proposal to permit a huge mine in Parley's Canyon came to my attention, I was horrified. Likewise the
proposal for a gondola in Cottonwood. These proposals are not progress, they are devastation.
Bill Rice
I am horrified to learn of the size and scope of the proposed new limestone quarry in Parley's Canyon.
Paul Steinman
It is almost nauseating to imagine the destruction of an entire mountainside in our backyard. We must
prevent these people from destroying such a large portion of Salt Lake City's greatest treasures -- the
Wasatch range.
David Rasmuson
I think that we shouldn't have a mine so close to where we live and recreate. Please stop the parleys
mine.
Julie Williamson
As a local physician and Salt Lake resident, I am against the proposed mine in Parleys canyon for both
the physical and mental health of our community.
Teresa Fuster
A 600 plus acres mine, or any industrialization of the Wasatch’s watershed is inconsistent with the
values of our communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this
proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value
the Wasatch Range. Our communities and future selves will be so proud of these revisions and actions
to protect parleys both as a beautiful place, but also a staple to our home!
Osman Sanyer
With expected population growth in the Salt Lake Valley, recreation areas will come under increasing
pressure. Allowing another mining operation at a valley entry point will result in further degradation
of our air, water, and recreational resources. At some point the Salt Lake Valley will become an
industrialized waste pit. This is the moment to create regulations to prevent that continuing
degradation.
Olivia Webb
The proposal of this mine is not only something the people of Salt Lake oppose vehemently, but it is
an unsustainable solution to our state’s quickly growing population that only serves those who would
profit greatly from a limestone quarrying project in one of the dearest canyons to many Utahns. i M
writing to express my support for the leadership of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and
the Salt Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zones. To me, this

seems like a further step in the process of parceling and selling our precious wilderness and
recreational resources that has become commonplace in Utah. After a mining project has destroyed
this land, we will not be able to restore it.
Mark Baer
It does seem - at least to this observer - that this situation is similar to other 'projects' where the
developer threatens enormous development in a play to get the land bought back and 'retired' at a
huge premium. Why else would this project be considered on such a grand scale up front rather than
starting smaller (like most projects) and then seeking expansion? Essentially, this looks like severe
leverage bordering on exploitation. Do you really want to be akin to this?
Jamie Goetz
In short, I am urgently asking you to NOT allow for mining in Parleys Canyon.
As an Indigenous person, too many times our voices go unheard and our actions unseen. Do not
continue the trend of raping indigenous lands across the United States.
Casey Jacketta
In addition, as a mother with a child with asthma & as a seasonal/inversion induced asthma sufferer
myself I’m extremely concerned about the additional pollution and reduction in air quality in the
valley this mining activity will cause.

SAVE PARLEYS CANYON

A developer is seeking permit from Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining (DOGM) to excavate part of lower
Parleys Canyon in the FR-20 zone into an enormous (634 acre) gravel and limestone pit. 1 If approved by
DOGM, Salt Lake County will then have to decide on granting a conditional use permit for this gravel pit.
•
•
•

This quarry would eventually be over 50 times the size of the existing 11.2-acre Harpers gravel pit.
The excavation process would operate over the next 100 years.1
Damage from blasting and hauling materials away from the site would leave a large permanent scar.1

WHY SHOULD OFFICIALS REVISE THE COUNTY’S CONDITIONAL USE ORDINANCE FOR THE FORESTRY
AND RECREATION ZONE (FR-20) TO EXCLUDE LARGE SCALE OPEN PIT EXCAVATION AND MINING?
LARGE SCALE OPEN PIT EXCAVATION AND MINING IS NOT CONSISTENT WITH SL COUNTY’s FORESTRY &
RECREATION ZONE (FR-20)
•
•
•
•

The purpose of FR-20 is to assure that “development is compatible with the protection of the natural and
scenic resources of these areas for the continued benefit of future generations.” 2
This activity is also inconsistent with the Wasatch Canyons General Plan and the Salt Lake County Resource
Management Plan. 3
Much of the remaining undeveloped private property between Parleys Canyon and the southern slope of
Little Cottonwood Canyon is surrounded by existing or proposed natural conservation areas. 4
Large-scale excavation would destroy the known habitat of elk, moose, black bear, mountain lion, golden
eagle and other species. 5

A REVISION WILL PROTECT SL COUNTY’S AIR QUALITY BY LIMITING THE GENERTION OF FUGITIVE DUST WHICH
IS WEAKLY REGULATED BY THE STATE OF UTAH 6
•

•

The state only inspects gravel pits for dust control every 12-18 months and they are not required to
manage their dust when not operating (e.g. at night, on weekends) or when the windspeed exceeds 25
mph.
Dust from gravel pits carries toxins such as crystalline silica, which is a carcinogen, also known to damage
lung tissue and result in chronic respiratory diseases. Residents living within a few miles of existing gravel
pits frequently complain about the effects of the dust on their health and their quality of life in general.

A REVISION WILL PROTECT SALT LAKE COUNTY’S WATER SOURCES AND WATER QUALITY
•
•
•

Gravel pits use large quantities of water for its operations and attempts to suppress the fugitive dust.7
The excavation could very likely disrupt water tables, putting springs and wells in nearby areas at risk. 8
Any lapses or accidents in sediment and chemical runoff management from large scale open pit
excavation and mining could seriously degrade downstream water.9

A REVISION WILL BE IN THE BEST INTERESTS OF SALT LAKE COUNTY’S ECONOMIC GROWTH
•
•

The #1 reason people move to, work, and invest in Utah is our unique outdoor recreation resources. 10
The #1 reason high-tech employees in the Point of the Mountain area leave Utah is air quality. 11

A REVISION WILL PROTECT PROPERTY VALUES AND REDUCE FIRE RISK.
•
•

Gravel pits substantially reduce property values permanently for nearby homeowners. 12
Industrial operations and heavy truck traffic increase the risk of fire not just for nearby communities, but
all the residential and commercial areas immediately to the west and downwind in the Salt Lake Valley. 13
This information is provided by a collaboration of individuals dedicated to saving Parleys Canyon.
Sources for this information are listed on the back. Website: www.saveparleys.org. Contact: info@saveparleys.org

References
1. Silver Mine Large Mining Operation Notice of Intent, Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining website:
https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/M0350054/2021/Incoming/11122021a.pdf (Table
106.3-1 indicates that 223 acres of the quarry’s bench face will not be reclaimed.)
2. http://saltlakecounty.elaws.us/code/coor_title19_ch19.12_sec19.12.010 Salt Lake County Municipal Code
19.12.010
3.Wasatch Canyons General Plan https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/planning--transportation/wasatchcanyons/wasatch-canyons-general-plan-summary-jan-2020.pdf. Salt Lake County Resource Management Plan
https://le.utah.gov/interim/2017/pdf/00005018.pdf
4. Central Wasatch Commission’s National Conservation and Recreation Area map.
https://wildutahproject.maps.arcgis.com/apps/MapSeries/index.html?appid=5b6aad23c87240bc8f3d122c3a0
203cc
5. https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/M0350054/2021/Incoming/11122021a.pdf
Table 109.2-1
6. Western Resource Advocates https://westernresourceadvocates.org/clean-air-water/fugitive-dust/#publichealth ; https://westernresourceadvocates.org/clean-air-water/fugitive-dust/#regulation
7. https://www.epa.gov/sites/default/files/201904/documents/mr_guidanceforapplicationfordustcontrolpermit.pdf “A rule of thumb is 1 acre-foot of water
(325,851 gallons) per acre of land.”
8. http://wcwrpc.org/HydraulicImpacts_DNRreport.pdf
9. https://files.dnr.state.mn.us/publications/waters/hdraulic-impacts-of-quarries.pdf
10.https://static1.squarespace.com/static/591a01ebcd0f68629f40385f/t/60eddbf56d720f75fb60531f/162620
1077655/2018+Outdoor+Partners+Report+UPDATE+7-21.pdf
11. https://www.deseret.com/2018/12/19/20661428/what-s-stopping-utah-s-legislature-from-solving-the-airpollution-problem-inside-the-politics-of-cle
12. https://www.plumasnews.com/letter-to-the-editor-the-effect-of-sand-aggregate-mine-on-propertyvalues/ ; http://crushthequarry.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=63:property-valuesdecrease-when-a-quarry-is-built&catid=67&Itemid=261
13. http://www.g-a-l.info/ForestFireReport.pdf

SAVE PARLEYS

Save Parleys Organization
http://saveparleys.org

Mission
Save, Protect, and Preserve the Mountains and Wilderness
Lands in Parleys Canyon and the Wasatch Front

Do you know
about the major
open-pit mine
proposed for
Parleys Canyon?
Now know as:
I-80 South Quarry

Background
Nov 24 To the surprise of residents and communities along the Wasatch Front, the Salt Lake
Tribune published an article regarding an application filed with the Department of Oil, Gas, and
Mining (DOGM) for both a small mining (<20-acre) and a large mining (634-acre) limestone
quarry operation located approximately three miles from the mouth of Parley’s Canyon.
Dec 7 DOGM issued a denial letter for the Small Mining Operation (SMO), citing Tree Farm’s
long-term intent is for a Large Mining Operation (LMO).
Dec 10 The Salt Lake County Council began formal proceedings to amend ordinances to the
Salt Lake County Code to prohibit mining in Forestry and Recreation Zones (FR) and Foothills
and Canyons Overlay Zones (FCOZ).
Dec 15 DOGM issued a letter of Action Items to Tree Farm, LLC regarding the proposal for the
Large Mining Operation.

The mine, once dug out, blasted, and
hauled away will permanently scar the
mountainside. It will leave residents,
recreationists, travelers, and wildlife to
live with degraded mountain habitat,
water, and air quality.

ARTIST’S RENDITION - BEFORE

.
# N -•

;,, • -

ARTIST’S RENDITION - AFTER

About the Proposed Mine
■

Total disturbed area would cover up to 634 acres. (One square mile is 640 acres.)

■

Expected life of the mine is approximately 100 years.

■

To provide a sense of scale: The 116-year-old Bingham Copper Mine covers 1,900
acres. This proposed mine would be nearly one-third that size – an opposing and
permanent scar carved into the mountainside.

■

The 11.2 acre Kilgore/Harper quarry mine, operating nearby since 1991, is a mere
1.7% the size of the proposed mine.

■

The size and scope of the proposed mine make it the largest mining operation within
the Wasatch Front since the Point of the Mountain quarry began in 1974.

■

Historically these mines cause increased air and dust pollution, which would affect the
Salt Lake Valleys residents, businesses, schools, and public open land for decades.

Potential Impacts
■

Parleys Canyon is a protected watershed. Up to 20% of SLC drinking water comes from
Parleys, and nearly 60% comes from the Wasatch Mountain watersheds.

■

Dust on snow threatens premature melting of snowpack – nature’s natural reservoir.

■

Two watershed reservoirs, located 1.5 and 3 miles from the mine site, are threatened by
contamination, increased sedimentation, and turbidity which risks warmer water and the
likelihood of algal blooms.

■

Unhealthy respirable dust from the mine, carried downwind, could affect tens-ofthousands of homes and businesses along the East Bench.

■

Family residences are located as close to one-quarter mile, and thousands of homes
reside within a four-mile radius (E. Sugarhouse, Canyon Rim, Millcreek City, Mt Olympus,
and Emigration Canyon).

■

An embarrassing eyesore that would be visible to millions of visitors to our city and and
resort towns. (“Utah, a Pretty, Great State.”)

Potential Impacts, continued
■

Increased semi-truck traffic along 1-80, estimated at over 140 trucks / 280 trips per day at
peak operations.

■

Heightened risk of wildfire due to increased mining and trucking operations.

■

Increase pollution, including air, dust, water, noise, light and diesel emissions.

■

Increased potential of avalanche and rock slides from blasting and crushing operations
could threaten homes and outdoor recreation activities

■

Destruction to landscape and ecology, and loss of wildlife habitat.

■

Nearby Harper quarry has a poor track record of fugitive dust control, and was denied
expansion by a Utah Supreme Court ruling in 2004.

■

This region of Parleys Canyon is zoned as Forestry and Recreation (FRZ), meant to only
allow development that is compatible with the scenery and natural resources of the area.

THIS
BACKYARD
THIS IS
IS EVERYONE’S
EVERYONE'S BACKYARD

SAVE OUR
SAVE
OUR CANYONS
CANYONS

How you can help
We need individuals, organizations, businesses and governments to engage

1
2
3

Send a letter in advance of the Feb. 3 Mountainous Planning Commission
and Feb. 16 Salt Lake County Planning commission meetings: wgurr@msd.utah.gov

Attend a public hearing. Upcoming SL County Planning Commission public meetings:
Thu, Feb 3rd @ 4:00 pm
Wed Feb 16th @ 8:30 am
Details at: saveparleys.org/take-action/
Email your legislators and local officials to enact meaningful changes to laws and
ordinances to help us prevent degradation of land, water and air resources.
Details at: saveourcanyons.org/resources/contact-your-elected-leaders

Get Involved and
Let Your Voice Be Heard
Please join us in the fight to protect our Wasatch Front canyons
For more information visit us at saveparleys.org
■ Follow the news at saveourcanyons.org/the-latest
■ We can be reached by email at info@saveparleys.org
■ Follow us on social media & get your friends and community engaged
Twitter | Instagram | Facebook
■

February 1, 2022 - Version 1.1

-Approximate boundary of
-ree Farm LLC strip mine

02/02/2022

Wendy Gurr
Salt Lake County Mountainous Planning District
Planning Commissioners
State of Utah
wgurr@msd.utah.gov
Re:

Tree Farm, LLC, Notice of Intention to Commence Mining Operations

Dear Ms. Gurr,
I am writing to you regarding the recent Notice of Intention to Commence Mining Operations that Tree
Farm, LLC submitted to your office for consideration on November 15, 2021.
I am a member of the Richard’s Family Partnership as well as an individual landowner that will be
negatively impacted by the proposed mining operation. As way of background, the land that the
Richards Family Partnership owns was homesteaded by our great grandfather and currently consists of
about 650 acres and 27 water shares. My family and I have a deep connection to the area surrounding
Mount Aire and Parley’s Canyon.
With the proposed mining operation, I am extremely concerned about a the negative environmental,
aesthetic, and overall value of not only my personal land holdings, but of those in the Mount Aire
community.
Related to the environmental impact, Tree Farm, LLC itself states that the migratory patterns of big
game in the area is likely to be significantly impacted by the proposed mine due to how narrow Parley’s
Canyon in combination with the proposed scale the mine will eventually attain. Utah has a unique
ecosystem, and we all have a vested interest in ensuring that our wildlife is impacted as little as possible
by human interference. This mine will prove disruptive to the ecosystem in the direct vicinity and
potentially expanding into Millcreek Canyon. I would ask that the Department of Natural Resources
complete an extensive study to ensure that the impact on wildlife is duly considered. At this point,
frankly, it has not been considered properly.
The impact on wildlife migration is not the only environmental concern related to the proposed mining
operation, noise, air, and water pollution are of great concern. The mine is proposing to extract minerals
using blasting agents and heavy machinery. The increase in heavy traffic to haul the materials away adds
to the noise pollution. The very nature of a large-scale mining operation, such as the one that is
proposed, will obviously degrade the serenity and stillness that my family and countless others have
come to seek in Mount Aire.
As is well documented, the Salt Lake Valley and surrounding areas rank among the worst in the world in
terms of particulate matter in the air that we breathe (especially during winter months). The dust
generated from a large mining operation will add to this issue at a point in time when the State is
looking to reverse the issue. Do we really want to send more particulates into the air during the ski
season for tourists to breath and see? Dust from operations aside, adding hundreds of haul trucks to the

roads will add to the NOx pollution that is already an issue in the area. If you ignore the health
considerations of higher air pollution on all demographics, it is harder to ignore the actual economic
impact of being a State the accepts and contributes to increased air pollution at the expense of one of
its largest economic engines: Tourism.
Water pollution is of substantial concern as well. As the Director of Salt Lake Public Utilities has publicly
stated, the Notice of Intention fails to adequately address the potential for water pollution not only in
Parley’s Creek, but Millcreek as well. Both waterways provide important ecological and recreational
benefit. As The Director has stated, more information is needed from Tree Farm, LLC as to exactly what
their plan is to mitigate creek and ground water pollution.
We need to determine whether or not the cost to our city, state, health, and overall environment is
worth the increased wealth of the few. I personally do not feel the cost to our collective and personal
health is not worth the cost to society.
I am pleading with you to please reject the application and Notice of Intention to Commence Mining
Operations submitted by Tree Farm, LLC. It does not appear that organization has seriously and properly
considered the potential impacts that this operation would have on the area. Please help protect what
makes Utah great, the natural beauty of our canyons.
Respectfully,

Jill VomDorp

February 1, 2022

Salt Lake County Mountainous Planning District Planning Commissioners
Salt Lake County Planning Commissioners
State of Utah
Attn: Wendy Gurr (wgurr@msd.utah.gov)
RE: Comment Letter regarding Parleys Canyon Proposed Mine:
- MDP Public Hearing on Thursday, February 3, 2022 at 4:00 PM
- Salt Lake County Planning Commission Public Hearing on Wednesday, February 16, 2022 at 8:30 AM
Dear Salt Lake County Mountainous Planning District and County Planning Commissioners,
I am a partner in the Richards Family Partnership which owns 664 acres of property directly
adjacent east or near the land on which the proposed open-pit quarry is intended. I also own a
cabin in Mount Air Canyon, which has been a big part of my entire life. I'm writing to you to
convey my concerns and opposition of Tree Farm, LLC's proposal to commence mining on its
property located in Parley's Canyon.
My Great Grandfather homesteaded Mount Aire and our property has been in the Richards
Family for well over 100 years. I am very much emotionally and financially invested in the
Mount Aire community. My concern is that by allowing another open-pit mine to commence
operations in Parley's Canyon, it would be devasting not only for the Mount Aire community,
but for the large community that surrounds the area. Additionally, there are numerous
environmental and health concerns that need serious consideration prior to granting Tree
Farm, LLC permission to proceed with the proposed mine.
Open pit mining operations are devastating to the environment because it exposes dangerous
chemicals buried in the Earth's crust. Quite simply, limestone cannot be mined without
impacting the environment in a negative way. An open-pit mine will cause vibrations and
explosions, land degradation, sinking and landslides, water pollution (toxic water), occupational
noise pollution, and harmful air pollution which can lead to health-related problems, including
loss of biodiversity. The dust, noise, and shaking alone will have a tremendous negative impact
on the Mount Aire community as well as Millcreek and other Salt Lake and Summit County
residents. There are too many harmful and unknown factors that could potentially affect the
environment by allowing a large limestone quarry. If this project is approved, the beauty of
Parleys Canyon and the wildlife will be greatly disturbed.
Furthermore, Tree Farm, LLC has not adequately described how it will ensure that water
pollution is mitigated. As per the Director of Salt Lake City Utilities:
"...sediment from the operation could be washed into Parleys Creek, which flows through an
open channel through much of the city, including Sugar House Park. The director of Salt Lake

City's Department of Public Utilities, Laura Briefer, said she plans to examine the proposal and
identify issues of concern. "We feel we need more information. One [concern] is water quality
from the proposed activities. While it's not upstream from our drinking water sources, it is
upstream from the city," Briefer said. "We read through the report. It doesn't really take into
consideration downstream water-quality issues except to say they are going to put BMTs [best
management practices] in place to mitigate the migration of any pollutants or sediments. It
doesn't talk about long-term degradation" Groundwater could also be impacted by the mining
operations, which could have hydrological connection with Mill Creek Canyon to the south, she
said1"
My hope is that Salt Lake County Planning Commissioners will consider my concerns as a
representative of the Richards Family Partnership, a member of the Mount Aire community,
and as a citizen that will be negatively impacted in Salt Lake County. It is imperative, that much
consideration and investigation of all the harmful effects the mine will have not only on the
wildlife population, but the health and well being of the citizens of Salt Lake and Summit
Counties is needed. To allow Tree Farm, LLC to mine in this location will cause risk and
damages to so many who care about this canyon and community.
In closing, I want to express how terrifying it was as a small child, traveling through Parleys
Canyon with my family to get to our cabin, and being stopped while there was blasting at the
existing mine on the North side of Parleys Canyon. I remember the loud noises, the shaking,
and not being able to see anything outside due to the large dust plume. We were not able to
travel until it was safe and there was visibility. When we arrived to open the gate at the
entrance of Mount Aire Canyon, our car was completely covered with dust particles. I can only
imagine the amount of dust particles and harmful pollutants that will travel with a mining
operation vastly larger than the existing one I am speaking of. It would be naive to think that
the dust pollutants will be contained.
I want to be clear that I am in full support of the Salt Lake County Mountainous Planning District
Planning Commission moving forward to amend current codes to prevent future mineral
extraction from the mountainous areas of Salt Lake County. These amendments are necessary
to ensure preservation, enjoyment, and safety within our canyons and communities.
Respectfully,
Susan Trapp
Richards Family Partnership
Managing Partner

1 Major Limestone Quarry Proposed for Parleys Canyon. Salt Lake Tribune. November 24, 2021

February 1, 2022
SALT LAKE COUNTY MOUNTAINOUS PLANNING DISTRICT PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
STATE OF UTAH
Attn: Wendy Gurr wgurr@msd.utah.gov
RE: Comment Letter regarding Parleys Canyon Proposed Mine for:
- MDP public hearing on Thursday, February 3, 2022 at 4:00pm
Dear Salt Lake County Mountainous Planning District and County Planning Commissioners,
I am a 48-year resident of Salt Lake City, a husband, and a father. I believe in personal property
rights and a limited government. I love Utah and I am proud of my home state. I am writing this
letter to register my support of the proposed amendments to Section 19.12.030 of the Salt
Lake County Code, and encourage the commissioners to support it as well.
I am concerned about our mountains and the ongoing threat of industrialization. More
specifically, and more immediately, I am deeply concerned about the recently-proposed "I-80
South Quarry" (aka Tree Farm Silver Mine) in lower Parleys Canyon. I hold it up as a perfect
example of the very worst type of threat that our mountainous spaces and surrounding
communities face unless we move aggressively to protect our treasured canyons.
Without delving into myriad concerns, I’ll merely summarize that Tree Farm LLC intends to
excavate 632 acres of land1 (56 times more operating acreage than nearby Harper quarry, five
times the acreage of Point of the Mountain quarry, and one-third the acreage of Bingham
Copper Mine2). The proposed site is three miles up Parleys Canyon, located in FCOZ and
FR-20 zone.3 The quarry would have a lifetime of 100 years.4 No reclamation would occur until
after operations permanently cease, and even then, one-third of the property would never be
reclaimed.5 Parleys Canyon is a high-visibility corridor for tourism6, surrounded by recreation
trails7, home to two watershed reservoirs8 and source of 20% of SLC’s drinking water.9
I present a few points that I hope the committee members will take into consideration:
●

The Mountainous Planning Commission’s stated goal is “to recommend policies to
preserve the mountain environment, enhance the quality of living and experience, and
manage uses in the mountains.”10

●

Explaining it’s raison d'etre, the MPC website states “The Mountainous Planning
District is a unique area, not like any other community in the County, in that it serves
as a significant recreation resource and a major watershed. Over 5 million visits are
made to this area each year. As a result, consideration should be given to the
‘regional impact’ of these areas and their planning should receive special treatment.” 11

●

Large-scale mineral extraction in our canyons runs contrary to the ideals encapsulated
in The Mountain Accord, a good-faith effort negotiated over many years by over 20
organizations & 200 signatories.12

●

Destructive, large-scale, mineral extraction in our canyons is not compatible with the
defined purpose of the forestry and recreation zones in SL County. 13

●

Permitting large rock quarries to operate in our canyons does not respect the purpose
of FCOZ.14 Rather, the process obliterates the environment, and disregards public
interest, for the benefit of a sole commercial entity.

●

A large quarry in our canyons is discordant with the stated vision of the Wasatch
Canyons General Plan (WCGP).15

●

A quarry in our canyons is not compatible with “one of the most important topics
discussed”: Watershed protection, according to the Wasatch Canyons General Plan.16

●

It should be noted that the Wasatch Canyons General Plan expects that the County
will amend zoning ordinances as needed to ensure that the plan’s vision is met.17

●

The Wasatch Canyon General Plan states that “The County will support the Utah
Division of Wildlife Resources in the implementation of the Utah Wildlife Action Plan.”
18

●

The Utah Wildlife Action plan identifies several at-risk species 19 found in our canyons,
and specifically Parleys Canyon, including the Bonneville Cutthroat Trout 20 21 and the
Golden Eagle. A quarry in Parleys could threaten 22 those species.

●

Federal laws from 1914 withdrew Parleys and other canyons from surface disposal on
public land.23 With the same goals in mind, it seems appropriate that the County
restrict similar conditional use on private land in our canyons.

●

A quarry in our canyons runs contrary to the stated goals of the The Salt Lake City
Watershed Management Plan.24

●

In 2004, the Utah Supreme Court determined that “the allowance of a gravel pit also
appears to be inconsistent with the stated purpose of the FR-20 zone...”25

●

SL County has already established specific zoning for gravel extraction: “The purpose
of the S-1-G zone is to permit extraction of gravel and similar natural resources in the
county.” 26

I believe in personal property rights. However, when one owner’s property rights substantially
impinge on the property rights of nearby landowners (in degradation of quality of life,
dimishment of property value, a threat to air and water quality, and a risk to water rights), then
there is reason for additional scrutiny. Tree Farm may argue that it has a right to do what it
wants on its own property, but Tree Farm is incapable of keeping what it’s doing on it’s own
property. The same is true of any gravel excavation project. Indeed, the regulations are
written in a way so as to allow pollution from gravel pit operators. Our mountains are not the
place for a rock quarry. Please support the proposed amendment to remove mineral
extraction from conditional uses allowed, and help us to protect our city’s greatest treasure,
our mountains.
Regards,
Justin Wilde
48-year, life-long resident of Utah
Homeowner in Mount Aire

Endnotes
1. Tree Farm LLC’s Large Mine Operation Notice of Intent (“NOI”), page 8: "Tree Farm will disturb a maximum area
of 634 acres on the property." Page 39 topo map shows that mine boundaries encompass numerous ridgelines and
peaks. Page 8: “It is assumed that all 634 acres will be disturbed at one time during the life of the mine.” Page 42 final
stage elevation map: the low end of the quarry flanks I-80, and the open pit penetrates into the south side of Parleys
Canyon, clearly visible from I-80. The mine “floor” sits at 5300 ft elevation, with highwalls rising to over 7500 ft
elevation, nearly a half-mile vertical. Per Google Maps, this massive crater will be carved approximately 1.55 miles
deep into the mountainside.
https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/M0350054/2021/Incoming/11122021a.pdf
2. a. Tree Farm: 634 acres (NOI, ppg 7-8)
b. Harper quarry: 11.2 acres (per Greg Baptist)
c. Point of the Mountain quarry: 111 acres *
d. Bingham Copper Mine: 1900 acres **
* https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/049/M0490071/2020/Incoming/01232020.pdf),
** https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bingham_Canyon_Mine
3. NOI page 28: “Tree Farm will access the site via the Mount Aire exit [132] and the UDOT frontage road along the
south side of I-80”

4. NOI page 8: Lifetime of mine will be "~100 years"
5. NOI, page 13: “The size and nature of the site will not allow for concurrent reclamation… …all acreage to be
disturbed will be covered in topsoil and re-vegetated when mining permanently ceases at the site.” Page 8: “The pit
slope benches will be reclaimed at the end of the mine life.” NOI, page 8, Table 106.3-1 “Approximate Disturbed Area
and Timeframe” shows that of 634 acres, a “Bench Face area” of “223 acres” “will not be reclaimed”

6. The proposed ISQ site flanks I-80 in lower Parleys, and the crater would be highly visible from the highway in
both directions. See artists’ rendition “Before and After” at https://saveparleys.org/ . NOI maps on pages 39, 42, 43.

7.https://www.alltrails.com/explore/us/utah/salt-lake-city?b_tl_lat=40.734183702876976&b_tl_lng=-111.82245548857
297&b_br_lat=40.659217990953266&b_br_lng=-111.6624985840363

8. Per Google Maps, Mountain Dell reservoir is 1.54 miles away, and Little Dell reservoir is 3.16 miles away
9. “Based on the City’s review of other water user claims filed by other parties in the Parleys drainage, it appears
that Tree Farms water rights holdings are very limited. This leads me to the conclusion that any water right possessed
by the Tree Farms and described in the Small Mine NOI and Large Mine NOI appear to be inadequate to meet the
operational demands of the mine, particularly since water quality issues and dust emissions associated with the
proposed mine would be reliant on a reliable source of water to mitigate. The City cannot make water available to the
mine.“
https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/bbooks/2022/01_Jan/Docket/2022-002_S0350053_TreeFarm/2022-002_20220125.8_SaltLak
eCitysPetitionToIntervene.pdf
10. Page introduction, https://slco.org/planning-transportation/mountainous-planning-district/
11. Frequently Asked Questions, https://slco.org/planning-transportation/mountainous-planning-district/
12. “The Central Wasatch mountain range is beloved by those of us who live along both sides of its ridge line. We
hike, we bike, we ski, we discover wildlife, we ramble and amble and find solitude amid one of the world’s most
spectacular backyards. And even as these mountains are a source of peace and spiritual renewal, they are also our
source for water and, literally, the reason life is possible in Utah’s arid climate.“ https://cwc.utah.gov/mountainaccord/
13. “The purpose of the forestry and recreation zones is to permit the development of the foothill and canyon areas
for forestry, recreation, and other specified uses to the extent such development is compatible with the protection of
the natural and scenic resources of these areas for the continued benefit of future generations.”
https://library.municode.com/ut/salt_lake_county/codes/code_of_ordinances?nodeId=TIT19ZO_CH19.1255FRFRFRF
RFOREZO
14. Chapter 19.72 - Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
https://library.municode.com/ut/salt_lake_county/codes/code_of_ordinances?nodeId=TIT19ZO_CH19.72FOCAOVZO
FC
15. “The visioning effort identified as top priorities[:] protecting the qualities that collectively characterize the Canyons
and celebrating the area’s natural significance.”

“Wasatch Canyons General Plan Update, Chapter2: Parleys Canyon”, page 24
https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/planning--transportation/wasatch-canyons/wasatch-canyons-general-plan_opt
imized_js.pdf
16. “One of the most important topics when discussing the Wasatch Canyons is watershed protection. The lakes and
streams in the Wasatch Canyons provide over half of the drinking water for people in Salt Lake City, Cottonwood
Heights, Holladay, Millcreek and parts of unincorporated Salt Lake County. The Wasatch Canyons are home to some
of the cleanest water sources in the nation. It is common in many cities and towns for the water to travel hundreds of
miles to reach residents’ faucets, but Wasatch Canyons water can take less than 24 hours to reach your glass.”
“Wasatch Canyons General Plan Update, Chapter2: Parleys Canyon”, page 28
https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/planning--transportation/wasatch-canyons/wasatch-canyons-general-plan_opt
imized_js.pdf
17. “The County will consider the need to periodically update County ordinances related to development siting,
access, floodplains, water protection, and the structural design of buildings to ensure that health and safety
requirements and the General Plan Vision and County goals are being met.”
“Wasatch Canyons General Plan Update, Chapter2: Parleys Canyon”, page 42
https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/planning--transportation/wasatch-canyons/wasatch-canyons-general-plan_opt
imized_js.pdf
18. “Wasatch Canyons General Plan Update, Chapter2: Parleys Canyon”, page 46
https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/planning--transportation/wasatch-canyons/wasatch-canyons-general-plan_opt
imized_js.pdf
19. “Utah Wildlife Action Plan, 2015-2015”, “Species of Greatest Conservation Need - Introduction and Table”
https://wildlife.utah.gov/pdf/WAP/Utah_WAP.pdf
20. “The Bonneville Cutthroat Trout (BCT) is listed as a “Tier I Conservation Species” by the State of Utah, as a
“Sensitive Species” by the US Forest Service, as a “Rangewide Imperiled (Type 2) Species” by the Bureau of Land
Management, and as a “Vulnerable Species” by the State of Idaho.” “Bonneville Cutthroat Trout”
WesternNativeTrout.org, Updated Jan 2018
https://westernnativetrout.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/BonnevilleCT_WesternNativeTroutStatusReport_Updated
January-2018.pdf
21. “The Canyon creeks harbor rainbow, brook, Bonneville cutthroat trout, and brown trout, all the result of stocking
programs in streams and surrounding lakes”
Wasatch Canyons General Plan, Wildlife, page 15
https://slco.org/globalassets/1-site-files/planning--transportation/wasatch-canyons/wasatch-canyons-general-plan_opt
imized_js.pdf
22. NOI, page 23: “Figures 10 and 11 show two potential golden eagle nests on cliffs in the project boundary. It is
unknown how recently these nests have been used”…
23. “Federal laws that are specifically applicable to the Wasatch mountains are a Public Law of 1914 (30 Stat. 714,
Public Law 199, September 19, 1914), withdrawing lands from surface disposal for City Creek, Red Butte,
Emigration, and Parley’s Canyons and a Public Law of 1934 (48 Stat 808, 809 Public Law 259, May 26, 1934),
reserving additional lands from mining and mineral patents in Millcreek, Big Cottonwood, and Little Cottonwood
Canyons to protect the municipal water supply. “
“Salt Lake County Resource Management Plan July 2017,” page 66
https://le.utah.gov/interim/2017/pdf/00005018.pdf
24. “The management emphasis prioritizes water quality first and multiple use of the watershed second. The
Wasatch Canyons are protected to maintain a healthy ecological balance with stable environmental conditions,
healthy streams and riparian areas, and minimal sources of pollution. Existing and potential uses that could lead to
the deterioration of water quality are limited, mitigated, or eliminated.”
“The Salt Lake City Watershed Management Plan”, 1999, Page 4
http://www.slcdocs.com/utilities/PDF%20Files/slcwatershedmgtplan.pdf.
25. “The allowance of a gravel pit operation also appears to be inconsistent with the stated purpose of the FR-20
Zone, which is ‘to permit the development of the foothill and canyon areas of the county for forestry, recreation, and
other specified uses to the extent that such development is compatible with the protection of the natural and scenic
resources of these areas for the continued benefit of future generations.’ Salt Lake County, Utah, Code § 19.12.010.
The considerable damage that would necessarily result to both the natural and scenic resources from any gravel pit
operation would be inconsistent with this purpose.”
Justia US Law, “Carrier v. Salt Lake County”
https://law.justia.com/cases/utah/supreme-court/2004/carrie112304.html
26. SL County code, Zoning, Chapter 19.42
https://library.municode.com/ut/salt_lake_county/codes/code_of_ordinances?nodeId=TIT19ZO_CH19.42GREZO_19.
42.010PUPR

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Tod Young, former Planning Commissioner, SLCo
Wendy Gurr
No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Wednesday, February 2, 2022 9:13:28 PM

Dear SLCo MPD and Commission Wendy Gurr,
Dear Planning Commissioners of Salt Lake County and the Mountainous Planning District:
I support the leadership of the Planning Commissions to amend the Forestry and Recreation
Zones.
I strongly support and recommend the following revisions of Salt Lake County Ordinances:
"Mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete
batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand,
gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons
Overlay Zone shall be prohibited," and
Establish a process for the County planning director to decide whether or not a use not listed is
prohibited or related to a conditional or permitted use in the relevant ordinances.
Industrialization, existing or proposed, of the Wasatch’s watershed is inconsistent with the
values of our communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud
this proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon
and value the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
Tod Young, former Planning Commissioner, SLCo
Sandy (Granite), UT 84092

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Jeff Myers
Wendy Gurr
Parley’s Canyon
Thursday, February 3, 2022 10:06:53 AM

Dear Ms. Gurr,
We strongly oppose the proposed new mine in Parley’s Canyon. We live nearby in SLC and recreate on the canyon.
Thanks you,
Jeff & Xochitl Myers
SLC 84108
Sent from my iPad

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Studio PK
Wendy Gurr
Parleys canyon quarry
Wednesday, February 2, 2022 11:18:13 PM

I do not support the in parleys canyon. Resources should be used to protect our environment, habitats, ecosystem,
rain collection/infiltration and not destroy them.
Thank you.
Krysta Dimick
Sent from my iPhone

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Catherine Raney
Wendy Gurr
Public Comment Letter - I80 Quarry
Wednesday, February 2, 2022 6:47:00 PM

Dear members of the Mountainous Planning District Commission,
I’m writing to ask you assure the proposed amendments to Sections 19.12.030. 19.72.190, and
19.76.030 of the Salt Lake County Code to prevent any new mining or industrial excavation activity in
the Wasatch canyons and foothills and recommend their approval. The proposed mine is 634 acres
and almost 1500 feet deep, making it one of the largest mines within the Wasatch front and
certainly the closest to our capital city.
This mine would go against the stated value of the Forest and recreation zones to protect the
natural and scenic resources of the areas for continued benefit of future generations. It will displace
wildlife, endanger our air and water quality, limit recreational opportunities and permanently
change the landscape of the Wasatch Mountains. (Entire ridgelines per the mining application are to
be removed and will not be reclaimed.) The space of land for this mine is a major habitat for elk,
moose, deer and recently bald eagles spotted, all of which will be displaced. Again going against the
convenance of preserving the natural and scenic resources of the area per the forest and recreation
zones and FCOZ intended purposes.
There is currently a mine within Parleys Canyon that even at it’ size of under 50 acres has a dramatic
impact on the air quality and water resources. This new mine is 50 times (+) larger, and much closer
to the water resources for that of our states most populated city. This proposal is contrary to the
foothill canyon master plan and the goals and objectives of our city and state to improve our air
quality, and reduce carbon emissions.
As Governor Cox shared in his state address this past January, “Our goal should never be to grow for
growth’s sake. We must prioritize a quality of life that all Utahns can enjoy.” I share a few takeaways
from the 2021 Report for the Governor on Utah’s Land, Water, and Air as prepared by the Janet
Quinney Lawson Institute for Land, Water & Air at Utah State University, that I hope you will also
further consider.

Utah experienced severe and exceptional drought in 2021, especially during the early
growing season, which resulted in reduced forage for wildlife and livestock. The loss of
forage from drought can have long-lasting economic and ecological consequences.
Although growth brings many benefits to the state, negative impacts of development
include decreasing air quality, decreasing water quality, and loss of animal habitat.
Utah’s population and economic growth projections show water demand exceeding
current reliable supply in the next two decades, unless we increase conservation and
reallocate water currently used in one sector to another use.
Environmental changes have increased the stressors on water quality. Those changes
increase the transport of pollutants and reduce natural retention and filtration processes.
Utah has significant air quality challenges, and the impact of poor air quality on Utahns’
health and economy are incontrovertible.
The demand for outdoor recreation on Utah’s public lands and waters has grown

consistently over the past decade.
Please note gateway communities listed are Park City, Springdale and Moab. The
I-80 Quarry is proposed directly within the path of Park City.
Outdoor recreation plays a vital role in Utahns’ quality of life as well as the health of the
state’s economy.

Please support the changes proposed by Salt Lake County Council. As elected officials and
commissions it is your responsibility to ensure the safety, well-being and quality of life of the
residents of Utah. This mine has the potential to negatively impact the entire Wasatch Front now
and for future generations to come.
Sincerely,
Catherine Raney Norman

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Valoree Dowell
Wendy Gurr
No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Wednesday, February 2, 2022 8:15:26 PM

Dear SLCo MPD and Commission Wendy Gurr,
Dear Salt Lake Co. Mountainous Planning District and County Planning Commissioners,
Though I live in Minnesota now, I was born and raised in Salt Lake, with the magnificent
Wasatch literally in my backyard. If it weren’t for the air pollution that threatened my life, I
would live there still.
So I was disappointed to learn that there are still entities looking at those mountains as
commodities to be exploited and essentially destroyed.
Adding a mine within the most densely-populated area of the state, which already struggles
with poor air quality and sensitive water resources, is a reckless action jeopardizing the health
and economic future of the state. I know this from personal experience. After years of
pollution-triggered bouts of asthma, bronchitis and pneumonia every winter, I was instructed
by my physician to “find a source of reliable clean air in the winter.” And I left my home in
2017.
To this end, I emphatically support the leadership of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning
District and the Salt Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation
Zones.
I support the following revisions of Salt Lake County Ordinances:
Prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including
crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the
removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the
Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone."
Establish a process for the County planning director to decide whether or not a use not listed is
prohibited or related to a conditional or permitted use in the relevant ordinances.
A 600 plus acres mine—or any industrialization of the Wasatch’s watershed—is anathema. It
threatens water, ecosystems, habitat and quality of life. In Minnesota we just recently stopped
another mine, this in the watershed of the Boundary Waters Wilderness Area. Degrading our
precious and irreplaceable natural assets is unconscionable, and thus I applaud this proposed
revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the
Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
Valoree Dowell
Marine on Saint Croix, MN 55047

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Oskar Bates
Wendy Gurr
We strongly oppose mining operations in Parleys canyon.
Thursday, February 3, 2022 9:42:29 AM

This proposal is dangerous and wrong. We as a state need to do everything we can to protect our environment, and
our water quality. I am highly concerned about the impacts of mining in the canyon on our water supply for the
future. Also, seeing how kennecot copper mine produces 40% of the valley’s emissions, I am not happy about the
proposal for more massive mining operations and their impact on our air quality. Let alone the further desecration
of these mountains, on stolen Gosiute Shoshone lands, for the profit of a settler few. Humble yourselves and see
that allowing the industrial digging of these sacred mountains is wrong.
Sincerely, concerned,
Oskar Bates
LANDBACK

