Stephen E.W. Hale (5285) (shale@parrbrown.com)
Daniel A. Jensen (5296) (djensen@parrbrown.com)
Justin P. Matkin (8847) (jmatkin@parrbrown.com)
Kassidy J. Wallin (14360) (kwallin@parrbrown.com)
PARR BROWN GEE & LOVELESS, P.C.
101 South 200 East, Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
Telephone: (801) 532-7840
Facsimile: (801) 532-7750
Attorneys for Tree Farm, LLC

BEFORE THE BOARD OF OIL, GAS, AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
STATE OF UTAH

IN THE MATTER OF THE REQUEST FOR
AGENCY ACTION OF TREE FARM, LLC
FOR A DECLARATORY RULING
REGARDING (1) THE COMPLETENESS OF
TREE FARM’S NOI-SMO S/035/0053; AND
(2) THE SUFFICIENCY OF TREE FARM’S
PROPOSED RECLAMATION SURETY

SUR-REPLY TO THE DIVISION’S
RESPONSE
Docket No. 2022-002
Cause No. S/035/0053

Tree Farm, LLC (“Tree Farm”) respectfully submits this sur-reply (“Sur-Reply”) to the
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining’s (the “Division”) Response to Tree Farm’s Reply.
I.

The Division’s Interpretation of the Act Ignores Plain Language
The Mined Land Reclamation Act (the “Act”) says: “An approved notice of intention is

not required for small mining operations.” Utah Code § 40-8-4(3)(b). The Act also says: “Except
for the form and amount of surety, an approval of a notice of intention for small mining
operations is not required.” Utah Code § 40-8-13(5). The Division has yet to explain how its
interpretation recognizes these statutory statements.
Instead, the Division’s interpretation ignores these statements and imputes an
interpretation to Tree Farm that Tree Farm has not advanced. Tree Farm’s interpretation would
1

not deprive the Division of all regulatory authority over small mines, nor would it render
ineffective all references to an “approved” notice of intention in the Act. Rather, Tree Farm’s
interpretation is the only interpretation that would make sense of all the language in both the
statutes and the rules.
When the Act says that approval is “not required” for a notice of intention for small
mining operations, it is not a prohibition on the Division’s regulatory authority or a prohibition
on the Division approving such a notice. The Act is merely signaling that the Board of Oil, Gas
and Mining (the “Board”) could enact rules (which it did) providing for a regulatory structure
where an operator’s notice could be determined complete after the passage of time unless the
Division voiced legitimate objections. The reason for this structure is because a small mine has a
smaller footprint and less impact, and it is important policy for the State of Utah to encourage
mining activity in general, and to encourage the expeditious review of small mining operations in
particular. See Utah Code § 40-8-2.
To implement the Act, the Board enacted rules with respect to small mines and large
mines. With respect to small mines, the Board enacted the rules found in R647-3. Those rules are
consistent with the statute in that they do not require the Division to “approve” a notice of
intention for small mining operations, but simply give the Division a time frame within which it
must review the notice and determine if it is “complete” or “incomplete.” See R647-3-101
(“Within 15 days after receipt of a Notice of Intention, the Division will review the proposal and
notify the operator in writing . . . [t]hat the notice of intention is complete . . . or . . . [t]hat the
notice of intention is incomplete.” (emphasis added)). There are three critical takeaways from
this language.

2

First, by using the mandatory word “will,” the rule requires the Division to review a
notice that is submitted, and to review the notice for completeness—not “approve” or “deny” the
notice. This is consistent with the statute, which provides that “the division shall complete its
review of the notice” after it is submitted. Utah Code § 40-8-13(4)(a). There is no exception or
caveat to this language. The Division has an obligation, set forth in governing statutes and rules,
to review every notice of intention that is submitted to the Division, and to review each notice for
completeness. If the Division has “objections” to the notice, the Division “shall” allow the
operator an opportunity to address those objections or, as the Division has asserted in this action,
“obtain a ruling relative to the objections from the board.” Utah Code § 40-8-13(4)(b).
Second, the rule gives specific time frames for the Division to conduct its review of a
small mine notice. It has an initial 15 days to review the notice for completeness, then has 10
working days to respond to the operator’s subsequent responses. Contrary to the Division’s
assertions that the process is wholly “iterative” (suggesting that the Division has boundless
ability to identify new deficiencies at any point), the process is only “iterative” with respect to
the items the Division initially identifies as incomplete. Otherwise, the time frames set forth in
the statutes and rules would have no purpose.
Third, the rule specifically explains what should be “approved” or “disapproved”—and it
is not the notice itself. The only thing the Division “will review and approve or disapprove” is
“[t]he form and amount of reclamation surety” (and any variances, which are not being requested
in this matter). R647-3-101(3).
Thus, the Division has the following obligations when it receives a notice of intention to
commence small mining operations: (1) review the notice for completeness within 15 days;
(2) review and respond to any subsequent filings of information within 10 working days; and

3

(3) approve or disapprove of the form and amount of reclamation surety. Those obligations do
not change or become obsolete if the Division also receives a separately filed notice of intention
to commence large mining operations, although the Division strains to find that interpretation.
To rule in the Division’s favor, the Board would have to ignore this plain language found in the
statutes and rules, and instead agree that an unwritten concept of “double permitting” or
“administrative efficiency” overrides the clearly expressed will of the legislature and this Board.
Such a decision would not be supportable under current law. The Division is not entitled to any
deference with respect to the “denial” because it is an erroneous application of the law. Murray
v. Utah Labor Comm’n, 2013 UT 38, ¶ 29 (“An administrative grant to administer a statute is not
to be confused with a grant of discretion to interpret the statute.”).
II.

Double Permitting
When the Division first raised the concept of “double permitting,” Tree Farm understood

that argument to be that the Division lacked the ability to process an NOI on ground where
another NOI was already approved. Indeed, in the Division’s initial response, the Division’s
concern was that “if a parcel is subject to multiple permits, it unnecessarily complicates
determining appropriate bonding amounts . . . and precludes the Division from releasing surety
to an operator who has ceased mining if the land affected is covered under a different active
permit.” Division Response at 4. Tree Farm responded to this by pointing out that an active small
mine has not stopped the Division from also processing a large mine notice before, and that Tree
Farm would stipulate that the NOI-SMO would automatically be replaced upon approval of the
large mine notice.
After further briefing, it is clear that the Division’s concern is not that an NOI is
submitted on ground that has already been approved under another NOI—it is the simultaneous

4

submission of two NOIs at the same time. In fact, the Division admits that if the NOI-SMO was
submitted without a large mine notice of intention, there would be no problem here. In other
words, if Tree Farm had only submitted the NOI-SMO, waited for approval, and immediately
after approval, submitted the large mine notice of intention, the Division would not have raised
an objection. This is a distinction without a difference. If this is simply a matter of the timing of
the filing, it finds no support in statute, rule, or case law. Tree Farm has a right under existing
law to have its notices reviewed.
Tree Farm’s initial point with pointing to the Coyote Pit was that the Division can, and
surely does, consider notices of intention on ground that is included within small mining
operations. That is absolutely true and the Division’s files are full of such instances. See, e.g.,
Division File Nos. S/035/0045 and M/035/0051 (North Salt Lake); S/005/0003 and M/005/0005
(BHT Mine). In fact, as has been pointed out in the briefing, R647-3-114 expressly contemplates
“mine enlargement” and requires an operator to file a notice of intention to commence large
mining operations if the operator intends to expand beyond 20 acres in an unincorporated area of
a county. Notably, R647-3-114 does not limit the timing of that filing. Knowing that review for
large mining operations would take time, Tree Farm filed the large mine notice together with the
NOI-SMO, but that does not take away Tree Farm’s statutory right to commence small mining
operations, subject to acreage limitations, while the large mine notice is being reviewed.
Furthermore, if the Division’s objection is that the small mine notice and the large mine
notice cover the same ground, and they should not overlap, the Division simply should have
notified Tree Farm of that objection so that Tree Farm could remedy it. See Utah Code § 40-813(4)(b) (“The division shall notify the operator of any objections to the notice and shall grant
the operator a reasonable opportunity to take action that may be required to remove the

5

objections.”). Instead, the Division took the unprecedented and unsupported action of “denying”
the NOI-SMO. If the issue here is that the NOI-SMO and the large mine notice cover some of
the same acreage, Tree Farm is willing to modify the boundaries of its notices. Unfortunately,
this would implicate some of the problems the Division first identified with respect to
determining appropriate bonding amounts and releasing surety, but apparently that method is
acceptable to the Division and Tree Farm would be willing to move forward in that manner if it
is the Division’s preference. See Division File Nos. S/035/0040 and M/035/0042 (Beef Hollow)
(small and large mine permitted simultaneously by same operator immediately adjacent to one
another and using same stockpile and crusher area).
The Division argues that the small mine is really just Tree Farm’s attempt to commence a
large mine without public participation. That is not true. As explained in prior briefing, Tree
Farm has no intent to disturb any more than 20 acres under its NOI-SMO. Current law allows
Tree Farm to submit a notice of intention for such operations and have it appropriately reviewed
by the Division.
III.

The Time for the Division to Review the NOI-SMO Has Passed
According to the foregoing statutes and rules, the time frame for the Division to conduct

its review of Tree Farm’s NOI-SMO has passed. And, although the Division suggests that the
NOI-SMO should come back to the Division so that it can attempt to identify further
deficiencies, the Division has already pointed to its desired procedure here, which is that Tree
Farm request a hearing before the Board and have the Board resolve these questions. See
Division Response to Petitioner’s Reply at 2 (citing Utah Code § 40-8-16). Specifically, what is
being considered in these proceedings are the objections the Division raised to the NOI-SMO.
Utah Code § 40-8-13(4)(b) (“The division shall notify the operator of any objections to the

6

notice and shall grant the operator a reasonable opportunity to take action that may be required to
remove the objections or obtain a ruling relative to the objections from the board.” (emphasis
added)).
The objections the Division raised with respect to Tree Farm’s NOI-SMO were: (1) the
nature, characteristics and the intention of the operator to mine precious metals, specifically
silver and associated minerals of silver mining; (2) a list of equipment that will be onsite, to
establish the bond; (3) assurance that other governmental agencies would be consulted; 1 and (4)
the simultaneous filing of the NOI-SMO with the notice to commence large mining operations
including the same ground. Tree Farm has responded to each of those inquiries in great detail, as
shown in this and prior briefing.
The Division cannot now, well after the initial 15-day review window (or even 30-day
review window if using the statutory language found in Utah Code § 40-8-13(4)(a)), and well
after the 10-working-day window to respond to Tree Farm’s responses, attempt to identify brand
new alleged deficiencies. The Division accepted Tree Farm’s NOI-SMO, accepted the filing fee
for the NOI-SMO, used all the time it desired to review the NOI-SMO and identify any
deficiencies, and identified those perceived deficiencies in its letters to Tree Farm. Tree Farm has
fully responded to those alleged deficiencies. The Division’s position now is that, rather than
give Tree Farm “a reasonable opportunity to take action that may be required to remove” those
1

In Tree Farm’s Reply, Tree Farm explained that a conditional use permit from Salt Lake County will not be
required on this site because Tree Farm holds a vested mining use. The Division’s Response to Tree Farm’s Reply
clarifies that the Division did not point to County zoning or any other government permit “as a basis for denying the
Small Mine NOI.” Division Response to Petitioner’s Reply at 9. Accordingly, Tree Farm understands that the
Division is not withholding approval of the NOI-SMO because of any needed governmental approval. Indeed, as the
Division recognizes, “the Division’s permit is often the first step and required by an operator as a prerequisite to
obtaining the later permits.” Id. It is not supportable for the Division to “deny” the NOI-SMO on the basis that there
may be permits needed for large mining operations; no large mining operations will be conducted under the NOISMO. Further, “Tree Farm understands that the determination of completeness of the NOI-SMO and sufficiency of
the reclamation surety does not relieve Tree farm from the responsibility to comply with the applicable statutes,
rules, regulations, and ordinances of all local, state, and federal agencies with jurisdiction over any aspect of the
mining operations, and Tree Farm does not object to a ruling from the Board and a notice from the Division
consistent with that responsibility.” Request for Agency Action ¶ 35.

7

alleged deficiencies, Utah Code § 40-8-13(4)(b), the Division may do something that has never
been done and “deny” the NOI-SMO, and Tree Farm may “obtain a ruling relative to the
objections from the board.” Id. So, at the Division’s insistence, that is what Tree Farm is doing.
It would be inappropriate for the Board to remand this to the Division for further review, over
100 days after the initial submission, and after the Division has clearly indicated in multiple
writings that this is a decision for the Board to make. Tree Farm has submitted a complete NOI,
has proposed a sufficient bond amount, 2 and is entitled to a determination of whether that
submission was complete.
IV.

Tree Farm Intends to Comply With All Applicable Rules and Regulations
To be clear, Tree Farm intends to comply with all applicable rules and regulations

pertaining to its small mining operations (and large mining operations, for that matter). Tree
Farm, again, is not positing that the Division lacks authority over the operations after the NOISMO is determined complete.
The operator on this site will be Granite Construction, a national company with vast
experience in mining matters. Granite is aware of the rules and regulations and will comply with

2

As Tree Farm noted in its Reply, if the proposed bond amount provided by Tree Farm is incorrect, Tree Farm is
willing to supply the correct amount as determined by DOGM. Reply at 15 n.6. Tree Farm notes that “[a]s part of
the review of the notice of intention, the Division shall determine the required surety amount . . . .” R647-3-111.3.
The Division should come to the hearing prepared to describe what the required bond amount is. The Division has
not done so either in its review of the NOI-SMO or in its briefing to date. In the Division’s initial Response filed on
January 10, the Division noted that “2019 figures” had been used in the calculation but that “deficiency . . . was not
included in the Division’s Deficiency Letter, but that nonetheless must be remedied prior to a determination that
Petitioner’s Small Mine NOI is complete.” Response at 10. In its Response to Tree Farm’s Reply filed on February
10, the Division again stated that “Petitioner pasted 2019 bond calculations from the Coyote Pit into the current
Small Mine NOI rather than obtain current 2021 figures.” Response to Reply at 8. The Division reasoned that
“[b]ecause of this, even if the Board were to determine that the Division should not have denied Petitioner’s
application, the application is nonetheless incomplete and must be remanded to the Division to ensure that Petitioner
corrects the deficiencies.” Id. at 8-9. Setting aside the fact that these statements are incorrect in view of R647-3-101
and R647-3-111.3, which require the NOI to be reviewed for completeness and the proposed reclamation surety to
be approved or disapproved as part of the review of the notice of intention, and disregarding the fact that an NOI is
not an “application,” the Division must disclose “the required surety amount” if it believes what Tree Farm proposed
was insufficient. Again, Tree Farm will post the required amount prior to commencement of operations, which will
satisfy the purposes of the Act to allow mining with proper reclamation assurances.

8

them. In addition, Granite has high safety standards and commits to the highest ethical behavior.
The site will be appropriately reclaimed. The proper information will be reported to the Division
during operations and the Division will have regulatory authority over the site. Tree Farm is not
attempting to circumvent the Division’s authority. Tree Farm is simply asking that the Division
follow its governing statutes and rules in reviewing the NOI-SMO that was submitted to it, now
over three months ago.

DATED this 18th day of February, 2022.

PARR BROWN GEE & LOVELESS

Kassidy J. Wallin
Attorneys for Tree Farm, LLC

9

CERTIFICATE AND PROOF OF SERVICE

I hereby certify that I have, this 18th day of February 2022, I caused a true and correct
copy of the foregoing Sur-Reply to the Division’s Response to be sent electronically to the
following:
By Email:
Lupita McClenning, Director of Planning
and Development
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services Dist.
Greg Baptist, Stormwater Inspection
Supervisor
lmcclenning@msd.utah.gov
gbaptist@msd.utah.gov

Michael E. Begley
Assistant Attorney General Representing
the Utah Board of Oil, Gas and Mining
mbegley@agutah.gov
Rebecca Hotze
Roger Kesterson
United States Forest Service
rebecca.hotze@usda.gov
roger.kesterson@usda.gov

Greg Sheehan
Bureau of Land Management
Blm_ut_so_public_room@blm.gov

Janell Eurick Bauer
Timothy Smith
Attorneys representing Save our Canyons
jbauer@joneswlado.com
tsmith@joneswaldo.com

H. Michael Keller
Tanner J. Bean
Attorneys representing City of Millcreek
mkeller@fabianvancott.com
tbean@fabianvancott.com

Rulon Harper
c/o Amber Harper
amber@harpercompaniesinc.com

Evan S. Strassberg
Steven J. Joffee
Attorneys representing Richards Family
Partnership
esstrassberg@michaelbest.com
sjoffee@michaelbest.com

Scott Baird
Salt Lake County, Director of Public Works
sbaird@slco.org

E. Russell Vetter
Attorney representing Salt Lake City Corp.
rusty.vetter@slcgov.com

/s/ Cindy Allen
Cindy Allen
10

