THE UTAH BOARD OF OIL, GAS AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
STATE OF UTAH
Electronic Meeting Determination
I, Chris D. Hansen, Chairman of the Utah Board of Oil, Gas and Mining (“Board”), have
determined the January 26, 2022 Board meeting will be held electronically without an anchor
location, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5)(a)(i).
This determination is based on the following facts:
1.
Utah remains in the grips of COVID-19, an airborne virus that has been
determined to be a global pandemic. The Department of Natural Resources Auditorium (“DNR
Auditorium”) is in Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County, which, are considered to be
experiencing high levels of COVID-19 transmission.
2.
Based on the emergence of the “omicron” variant of the COVID-19 virus, Utah is
currently experiencing a high number of COVID-19 cases and the Board remains vigilant in
following protocols that control the spread of the virus by minimizing face-to-face interactions.
3.
Conducting a public meeting at this time at the DNR Auditorium with full public
participation presents a substantial risk to the health or safety of those present or who would
otherwise be present at the anchor location.
4.
A vast majority of Division of Oil, Gas and Mining (“Division”) staff and the
members of the Board are teleworking to avoid unnecessary contact with others.
5.
The resources at the DNR Auditorium are insufficient to provide reasonably safe
accommodation for the Board, the Division, and the public.
6.
The Board uses an electronic platform which allows interested parties to view the
meeting, hear discussions, and provide written comment.
7.
Please contact the Board’s Secretary at juliecarter@utah.gov for information
pertaining to the electronic platform and/or electronic participation.
8.
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(6), this determination will expire thirty
(30) days after the date it is issued.
Dated this 19th day of January, 2022.

Utah Board of Oil, Gas and Mining

