FILED
JANUARY 25 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING
Julie Carter <juliecarter@utah.gov>

Parley's Canyon Proposed Tree Farm LLC Mine
Elizabeth Dunham <dunham4@me.com>
To: juliecarter@utah.gov

Tue, Jan 25, 2022 at 8:18 AM

Julie Carter
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
PO Box 145801
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-5801
I am writing this letter in regards to the proposed mine in Parleys Canyon that is being reviewed by
DOGM regarding the application from Tree Farm LLC for the silver mine limestone quarry in Parleys
Canyon. As you are aware there is overwhelming opposition and frustration at the proposal from
members of the Mt. Aire community adjacent to the land you are reviewing for Jesse Lassley at Tree
Farm LLC mining project.
There are many obvious problems with this application including, but not limited to wildlife habitat,
visual traffic and access, blasting noise, dust, water etc. I wanted you to also be aware of the historic
community of Mt. Aire Canyon that is adjacent to this Tree Farm mining proposal. This community of
multi-generational families have lived full and part time and have recreational properties within 1/2 a
mile of this proposed Tree Farm mining project. There are over 100 family properties that are
extremely devastated by this proposal. Many of these families have raised generations on this land
and are some of the most cherished memories these families have experienced. How would most of
you feel about a toxic mining operation wiping out your families traditions or devastating your
neighborhood? The plan does not fit into any compliance whatsoever with the Salt Lake County
Foothills and Canyon overlay zone. Salt Lake County has long recognized that this area needed
special protection as part of the Foothill and Canyons overlay zone (FCOZ). Jesse Lassley from Tree
Farm LLC was fully aware that the property he purchased a couple years ago was not developable
land because of the issues involved with water, slope eligibility, wildlife etc.
There are more items that should be addressed for the public health and safety before you give
approval such as:
1. How will this affect the aquifer and water quality in Mt Aire Canyon. If you look at the amount of
residents a full study should be done.
2. Utah’s air quality is devastating and needs addressed now. The microscopic dust particles that
blow from the existing quarry are massive, adding an additional polluter is insane and needs to be
stopped. My young boys attended Eastwood Elementary at the mouth of Parley’s Canyon and many
of their recess days were spent INDOORS because of the pollution in the area was not safe for their
outdoor activity.
3. Will the overpasses handle all the extra truck traffic? UDOT has had issues with the increased
traffic from the gravel quarry down canyon, how could we double or triple the trucks and not expect
problems on our roads.
4. Blasting and dust would totally ruin property values and residents enjoyment of Mt Aire canyon and
the surrounding communities and present a safety hazard.

Totally desecrating the adjoining land now for a greedy developer would make a mockery of any
protections in the canyon. It is time for the State to respect the County, families of Mt. Aire, adjoining
cities, and over 20,000 citizens that have signed a petition against this proposal and we are just
getting started. We are asking for your immediate action to end this embarrassment and act of
blatant greed at the communities expense.
Sam & Liz Dunham family
801 631 6819
cc: Governor Spencer Cox, Mayor Jenny Wilson, Mayor Erin Mendenhall

