Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022
E. Russell Vetter (#4934)
SALT LAKE CITY CORPORATION
P.O. Box 145478
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-5478
Telephone: (801) 535-7788
Facsimile: (801) 535-7640
Rusty.vetter@slcgov.com
Counsel for Salt Lake City Corporation

BEFORE THE BOARD OF OIL, GAS, AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
STATE OF UTAH
SALT LAKE CITY’S PETITION TO
INTERVENE

In the Matter of:
Denial of Notice of Intention to
Commence Small Mining
Operations, Tree Farm LLC, Silver
Mine, S/035/0053, Task ID# 10588,
Salt Lake County, Utah

Docket No. 2022-002
Cause No. S/035/0053

Request for Agency Action

Filing Date: January 25, 2022

Pursuant to Utah Administrative Code § R641-103-100, Salt Lake City Corporation
(“Salt Lake City”), a Utah municipal corporation, submits this Petition to Intervene. Salt Lake
City seeks to intervene for the purposes of (i) supporting the December 7, 2021 denial by the
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining (“Division”) of the Notice of Intention to Commence Small
Mining Operations, Tree Farm LLC, Silver Mine, S/035/0053, Task ID# 10588, Salt Lake
County, Utah, filed by Tree Farm LLC, (ii) and opposing Tree Farm LLC’s Request for Agency
Action and any commencement of mining operations by Tree Farm LLC under a Notice of
Intention to Commence Small Mining Operations. As set forth herein, Salt Lake City’s legal
interests will be substantially affected by the formal adjudicative proceedings in the above2

Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022
captioned case, and the interests of justice and the orderly and prompt conduct of the
adjudicative proceedings will not be materially impaired by allowing Salt Lake City’s
intervention. This Petition is supported by the Declaration of Laura Briefer, Director of Salt Lake
City’s Department of Public Utilities in Support of Salt Lake City’s Petition to Intervene
(“Briefer Declaration”), attached as Exhibit A.

STATEMENT OF FACTS
On November 12, 2021, Tree Farm LLC (“Tree Farm”) submitted to the Division both a
Notice of Intention to Commence Small Mining Operations (“Small Mine NOI”) and a Notice of
Intention to Commence Large Mining Operations (“Large Mine NOI”). On December 7, 2021,
the Division denied Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI. It explained that the “contemporaneous
submittal of these NOIs indicates Tree Farm LLC’s long-term intent is to commence operations
for a large mine,” and that in “the interest of administrative efficiency . . . [the Division] will turn
all focus and attention to the expedient review and processing of Tree Farm LLC’s Large Mine
NOI.” On December 10, 2021, Tree Farm filed a Request for Agency Action, seeking a
declaratory ruling from the Board of Oil, Gas, and Mining (“Board”) regarding the completeness
of Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI and the sufficiency of its proposed reclamation surety in order
to commence operations under its Small Mine NOI.
Salt Lake City’s eastern boundary is located approximately two miles away from the
proposed mine site. It’s Department of Public Utilities is the retail water provider to all of the
City’s residents in addition to thousands of water customers outside of the City boundaries. One
of Salt Lake City’s critical watersheds is Parleys Canyon, which includes Mountain Dell and
Little Dell reservoirs and the Parleys Water Treatment Plant. These facilities are located
3

Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022
approximately four miles from the mine site, and within the same watershed. Furthermore, Salt
Lake City owns the vast majority of water rights in the Parleys drainage and water availability is
severely limited for any use in Parleys Canyon. See Briefer Declaration. The proposed mine has
the potential to severely and adversely impact Salt Lake City’s water resources and infrastructure
from fugitive dust emissions emanating from the proposed rock quarry mining operations
described in Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI and Large Mine NOI. Id The fugitive dust emissions
blowing from Parleys Canyon into the Salt Lake City watershed pose a threat to the health,
safety, and general welfare of Salt Lake City residents and water customers. Id.
ARGUMENT FOR INTERVENTION
The Board should grant Salt Lake City’s intervention if Salt Lake City’s “legal
interests may be substantially affected by the formal adjudicative proceedings, and [that t]he
interests of justice and the orderly and prompt conduct of the adjudicative proceedings will
not be materially impaired by allowing the intervention.” Utah Admin. Code r. R641-103100.
The legal interests of Salt Lake City in this matter are established in (i) Salt Lake City’s
legitimate concerns for the adverse impacts to the health, safety, and general welfare of its
community and its residents posed by new proposed mining operations in Parleys Canyon, in
particular, fugitive dust emanating from those operations and transported by canyon winds into
the Salt Lake City watershed, and (ii) Salt Lake City’s right to participate in the public review
and comment process provided under the Utah Mined Land Reclamation Act (Utah Code Ann.
§ 40-8-1, et seq.) for the Division’s review of Large Mine NOIs prior to the commencement of
any proposed mining operations. Both interests will be substantially affected by the formal
adjudicative proceedings on Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI.
4

Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022

Salt Lake City supports the Division’s denial of Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI for the
reasons stated herein and for the reasons asserted by the Division. Allowing Salt Lake City’s
intervention is in the interest of justice and will not materially impair the orderly and prompt
conduct of the adjudicative proceedings in this matter.
Salt Lake City has invested significant time and resources for more than a century in the
protection of its water supplies and environment in Parleys Canyon and other nearby
watersheds. Based on our analysis of the Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI and Large Mine NOI,
the City has significant concerns with proposed mine in Parleys Canyon. The City’s concerns
include, but are not limited to, impacts to the watershed and water resources and water available
for the mine operations. The City believes that the large-scale development associated with the
mine within the watershed will unnecessarily place the Parleys water resources at risk, which is
relied upon by many businesses, residents and visitors to Salt Lake County.
The mountains and streams of the Central Wasatch Mountains provide high-quality
drinking water sources for more than 360,000 people within Salt Lake City’s service area for its
public water supply. The City’s service area includes all of Salt Lake City, and portions of Mill
Creek, Holladay, Cottonwood Heights, Midvale, Murray, and South Salt Lake, all within Salt
Lake County. The City’s most recent Water Supply and Demand planning through the year
2060 includes projected population growth in our service area, the new State Correctional
Facility in the City’s Northwest Quadrant, and the industrial zoning within the new Inland Port.
The planning effort shows that by 2060 Salt Lake City’s water resources will not support the
projected growth in our service area without significantly more water conservation by our
community members. This assumes the City can continue to rely on all of its existing water

5

Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022
resources, including waters that are gathered at Mountain Dell and Little Dell reservoirs. See
Briefer Declaration.
Salt Lake City’s water supply planning additionally documents the threats and risks to
the reliability of its water resources. The most significant risks to the water resources in Parleys
Canyon and other nearby watersheds include overuse and increasing development of the
watershed, which are greatly exacerbated by the impacts of climate change, including drought
and wildfire. The reliance on current and future water supplies by more than 360,000 people
underscores the necessity of careful alignment between development and water resource
protection. Salt Lake City is concerned that the magnitude of mine development and likely
resulting impact the Parleys watershed and will increase the risk of degradation of the City’s
water resources and reduce the ability of the public to rely upon their drinking water supply. Id.
The fugitive dust created by the Mine will have wide ranging impacts. The Petition to
Intervene filed by Millcreek City describes the current dust problems for residents of Millcreek
from the Harper mine, which is located adjacent to the proposed mine site. The water held in
Mountain Dell and Little Dell reservoirs are open to dust deposits that will affect water quality
since they are located within close proximity to the proposed mine site. Furthermore, fugitive
dust deposited throughout the Wasatch Mountains during the winter will accelerate the melting
of snow, which is relied upon by the City for providing water to the City’s water customers
during the summer months when a snow melts over time. An acceleration of the rate of snow
melt will mean that water will not be available when water needs are at their highest during the
summer months. Id.
For 174 years, Salt Lake City has developed, through the rates and taxes paid by its

6

Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022
residents, an extensive water treatment and distribution system that encompasses more than 141
square miles within Salt Lake County. This includes the Mountain Dell Water Treatment
Facility that treats the City’s water. The City has also acquired substantial water rights over the
last century, and pursuant to state statutes maintains those water rights for the beneficial use of
the residents of the City’s water service area. Salt Lake City holds the vast majority of water
rights within the Parleys Canyon area. The City’s water infrastructure investment and assets are
valued in the hundreds of millions of dollars. Salt Lake City’s investments in water resources
and infrastructure rely upon its ability to effectively treat and convey the water emanating from
Parleys Canyon and the other nearby watersheds. Id
Salt Lake City is legally bound by state and federal regulations to provide clean, safe
water and to protect public health. The City must comply with requirements promulgated
through federal and state water quality statutes, including the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA)
and Clean Water Act (CWA). As a Public Water System (PWS) the City must meet regulatory
obligations requiring the protection of drinking water sources as critical to safeguarding public
health. The City is subject to the state SDWA requirements and Administrative Rules regulating
Public Water Systems. The proposed mine will make it more difficult for the City to meet these
obligations. Id.
Significantly, the mine application does not address the limited water resources for
operating the proposed mine. As a result of the City’s significant water right holdings in Parleys
Canyon, it is the primary water right holder in the area and any water right possessed by the
Tree Farms and described in the Small Mine NOI and Large Mine NOI appears to be inadequate
to meet the operational demands of the mine. The City cannot expand the quantity or

7

Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022
geographic area associated with the mine and no additional water will be made available to the
mine from the City. Furthermore, based on the water user claims filed in the General
Adjudication action that has been filed by the State Engineer in Third District Court, there are
no additional water rights that can be developed in Parleys Canyon. Id.
Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI and Large Mine NOI failure to acknowledge the water
availability issues and water resources in Parleys Canyon is particularly troubling. Decades ago,
Salt Lake City established watershed ordinances (Chapter 17.04 of Salt Lake City Code) that
protect the City’s water resources and limited future sales of water outside of the City’s service
area. The location of the proposed mine is outside of the City’s service area. As a result, the
City is not obligated and will not be providing any water resources to the proposed mine. The
City’s water resources are committed for its customers in its designated service area and,
therefore, there is no City water available for the proposed mine. Id.
Salt Lake City also has a legally protected interest in participating in the public review
and comment process provided under the Utah Mined Land Reclamation Act for review of
Large Mine NOIs prior to the commencement of any proposed mining operations. Tree Farm’s
intention is to undertake a large mining operation but to commence mining operations prior to
the regulatory and public review required for large mining operations by filing a Small Mine
NOI within the footprint of its Large Mine NOI. Tree Farm seeks to skirt the statutory and
regulatory processes for review and approval of large mining operations. Salt Lake City is
entitled to intervene in this matter and assert its legal interests in ensuring that the mandated
regulatory and public review process under the Utah Mined Land Reclamation Act is followed
and Salt Lake City is allowed to participate.

8

Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022
ARGUMENT IN SUPPORT OF DENIAL OF THE SMALL MINE NOI
Salt Lake City joins in the legal arguments provided by Millcreek City in support of
denial of the Small Mine NOI. The Division’s denial was proper and should be sustained for the
reasons set forth in Millcreek City’s petition.
CONCLUSION AND REQUEST FOR RELIEF
Based on the foregoing, Salt Lake City respectfully requests that this Petition to
Intervene be granted, that the Board consider Salt Lake City’s arguments set forth herein in
support of the Division’s denial of Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI, and that the Board sustain the
Division’s denial of Tree Farm’s Small Mine NOI and not allow commencement of mining
operations under the Small Mine NOI.

Dated: January 25, 2022
_/s/ E. Russell Vetter_______
E. Russell Vetter (#4934)
SALT LAKE CITY CORPORATION
P.O. Box 145478.
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-5478
Telephone: (801) 535-7788
Facsimile: (801) 535-7640
Rusty.vetter@slcgov.com
Counsel for Salt Lake City Corporation

9

Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022
CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
On this 25th day of January 2022, the undersigned caused the foregoing PETITION TO
INTERVENE to be filed and served accordingly:
Filed, by email and mail, to:
Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Attn: Julie Ann Carter
PO Box 145801
Salt Lake City, UT 84114
juliecarter@utah.gov
Secretary for the Board of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Served, by email or mail, to:
Stephen E.W. Hale
Daniel A. Jensen
Justin P. Matkin
Kassidy J. Wallin
Parr Brown Gee & Loveless, P.C.
101 S. 200 E., Suite 700
Salt Lake City, UT 84111
shale@parrbrown.com
djensen@parrbrown.com
jmatkin@parrbrown.com
kwalling@parrbrown.com
Attorneys for Tree Farm LLC
Haley Sousa
Assistant Attorney General
Utah Attorney General’s Office, Natural Resources Division
1594 W. North Temple #300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
hsousa@agutah.gov
Attorney for Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Michael E. Begley
Assistant Attorney General
Utah Attorney General’s Office, Natural Resources Division
1594 W. North Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
10

Salt Lake City’s Petition to
Intervene January 25, 2022
mbegley@agutah.gov
Attorney for the Utah Board of Oil, Gas and Mining
United States of America
c/o Forest Service
857 W South Jordan Pkwy
South Jordan, UT 84095
United States of America
c/o BLM 440 W 200 S # 500
Salt Lake City, UT 84101
Richards Family Partnership
c/o Susan Trapp
2313 E. Creek Rd. Cottonwood Hts, UT 84093
Rulon Harper
6085 S Tolcate Woods Ln.
Holladay, UT 84121
Immediately Adjacent Landowners
Salt Lake County
c/o Scott Baird, Director Public Works
2001 S State Street, #N3-600
Salt Lake City, UT 84190-3050
scottbaird@slco.org
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
c/o Lupita McClenning, Planning and Development, Director
c/o Greg Baptist, Stormwater Inspection Supervisor
2001 S State, #N 3-600
Salt Lake City, UT 84190
lmcclenning@msd.utah.gov
gbaptist@msd.utah.gov
Other Known Interested Parties

/s/ Jennifer Wordelman
Jennifer Wordelman

11

EXHIBIT A

Declaration of Laura Briefer
E. Russell Vetter (#4934)
SALT LAKE CITY CORPORATION
P.O. Box 145478
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-5478
Telephone: (801) 535-7788
Facsimile: (801) 535-7640
Rusty.vetter@slcgov.com
Counsel for Salt Lake City Corporation

BEFORE THE BOARD OF OIL, GAS, AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES STATE
OF UTAH
In the Matter of:
Denial of Notice of Intention to
Commence Small Mining Operations,
Tree Farm LLC, Silver Mine,
S/035/0053, Task ID# 10588,
Salt Lake County, Utah
Request for Agency Action

DECLARATION OF LAURA BRIEFER IN
SUPPORT OF SALT LAKE CITY’S
PETITION TO INTERVENE
Docket No. 2022-002 Cause
No. S/035/0053
Filing Date: January 25, 2022

I, Laura Briefer, being of lawful age, hereby swear and state as follows:
1. I am over 21 years of age.
2. I have personal knowledge of the facts stated herein.
3. I reside in Salt Lake County, Utah.
4. I am the Director of Salt Lake City’s Department of Public Utilities. I have been
employed by Salt Lake City since 2008 and was previously employed by the Town of Alta. Prior to
moving to Utah, I was employed as an environmental consultant in California. I have a Master of
Public Administration from the University of Utah and my undergraduate degree is in
Environmental Studies from the University of California, Santa Barbara.
5. Salt Lake City is the largest retail water provider in the State of Utah and has over 360,000
water customers. The City’s water assets include over 30,000 acres of property in the Wasatch

Mountain range that is designated watershed property. This includes approximately thousands of
acres of land owned by the City in Parleys Canyon. Parleys Canyon also contains the City’s
Parleys Water Treatment Plant which processes up to 20 percent of the water water used by Salt
Lake City water customers. The City maintains two reservoirs for drinking water and flood control
in the Parleys watershed. The reservoirs, Mountain Dell and Little Dell have a combined capacity
of more than 20,000 acre-feet..
6. The mountains and streams of the Central Wasatch Mountains provide high-quality
drinking water sources for more than 360,000 people within Salt Lake City’s service area for its
public water supply. The City’s service area includes all of Salt Lake City, and portions of Mill
Creek, Holladay, Cottonwood Heights, Midvale, Murray, and South Salt Lake, all within Salt Lake
County. The City’s most recent Water Supply and Demand planning through the year 2060 includes
projected population growth in our service area, and changing land uses, including the new State
Correctional Facility in the City’s Northwest Quadrant, and the industrial zoning within the new
Inland Port. The planning effort shows that by 2060 Salt Lake City’s water resources will not
support the projected growth in our service area without significantly more water conservation by
our community members. This assumes the City can continue to rely on all of its existing water
resources, including waters that are gathered at Mountain Dell and Little Dell reservoirs as the
entire Parleys Creek watershed.
7. A significant number of acres within the City’s watershed inventory are near the
proposed Tree Farms mine site. The Salt Lake City watershed accounts for about 60 percent of the
City’s total water supply. Pollution is a critical threat to the health of the watershed and a growing
concern is the effect of fugitive dust polluting the watershed. The fugitive dust from the proposed
mine site in Parleys Canyon, which is situated in close proximity to critical watershed lands and
two key water reservoirs, is a significant concern for the City as a water provider to a significant
portion of the Salt Lake Valley. The City’s water infrastructure investment and assets are valued in
the hundreds of millions of dollars. Salt Lake City’s investments in water resources and

infrastructure rely upon its ability to effectively treat and convey the water emanating from Parleys
Canyon and the other nearby watersheds.
8. Salt Lake City’s water supply planning additionally documents the threats and risks to
the reliability of its water resources. The most significant risks to the water resources in Parleys
Canyon and other nearby watersheds include overuse and increasing development of the watershed,
which are greatly exacerbated by the impacts of climate change, including drought and wildfire.
The reliance on current and future water supplies by more than 360,000 people underscores the
necessity of careful alignment between development and water resource protection. Salt Lake City
is concerned that the magnitude of mine development and likely resulting impact the Parleys
watershed and will increase the risk of degradation of the City’s water resources and reduce the
ability of the public to rely upon their drinking water supply.
9. The water held in Mountain Dell and Little Dell reservoirs would be open to dust
deposits that will affect water quality since they are located within close proximity to the proposed
mine site. Furthermore, fugitive dust deposited throughout the Wasatch Mountains during the
winter will accelerate the melting of snow, which is relied upon by the City for providing water to
the City’s water customers during the summer months when a snow melts over time. An
acceleration of the rate of snow melt will mean that water will not be available when water needs
are at their highest during the summer months. The fugitive dust emissions blowing from Parleys
Canyon into the Salt Lake City watershed pose a threat to the health, safety, and general welfare of
Salt Lake City residents and water customers.
10.

Salt Lake City is legally bound by state and federal regulations to provide clean,

safe water and to protect public health. The City must comply with requirements promulgated
through federal and state water quality statutes, including the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA)
and Clean Water Act (CWA). As a Public Water System (PWS), and the City must meet
regulatory obligations requiring the protection of drinking water sources as critical to

safeguarding public health. The City is subject to the state SDWA requirements and
Administrative Rules regulating Public Water Systems. I believe that, despite mitigation efforts,
a new mining operation in Parleys Canyon in this proximity to Salt Lake City’s watershed
properties would cause harms, from fugitive dust that will make compliance with State and
Federal laws more difficult.
11.

Salt Lake City has held significant water rights in Parleys Canyon for more than

one hundred years. Such water rights have been affirmed by the City in its filing of water user
claims for the Parleys drainage in the General Adjudication action that has been filed by the
State Engineer in Third District Court. Based on the City’s review of other water user claims
filed by other parties in the Parleys drainage, it appears that Tree Farms water rights holdings are
very limited. This leads me to the conclusion that any water right possessed by the Tree Farms
and described in the Small Mine NOI and Large Mine NOI appear to be inadequate to meet the
operational demands of the mine, particularly since water quality issues and dust emissions
associated with the proposed mine would be reliant on a reliable source of water to mitigate.
The City cannot make water available to the mine.
12.

Decades ago, Salt Lake City established watershed ordinances (Chapter 17.04 of

Salt Lake City Code) that protect the City’s water resources and limited future sales of water
outside of the City’s service area. The location of the proposed mine is outside of the City’s
service area. As a result, the City believes that water resources will not be available for the
proposed mine. The City’s water resources are obligated to provide water to its customers in its
designated service area.
I declare under criminal penalty under the law of Utah that the foregoing is true and
correct.
DATED this 25th day of January 2022 in Salt Lake County, Utah.,
/s/ Laura briefer________________
Laura Briefer

