The following citizens have submitted the form email below. These submissions
were received after the amended Mountainous Planning District Planning
Commission packet was posted on the Utah Public Notice website on February 3,
2022.
Benjamin Hewitt, Preston McIllece, Brynne Udy, Susan and Dale Poulter, Lyndee Weaver, Emily Boman,
Kelly Hansen, Carson Darling, Christy Carson, Emily Hawker, Rachel Jones, Spencer King, Fae Hadlock,
Andrew Graham, Ashley Price, John Trout, Sadie Upwall, Taran Loper, Ben Rees, Kasandra Lundquist,
Maddy Browning, Colin Dumke, Alison Myers, Ian Olson, Haley Munson, Jessica Griffths, Anika Jansen,
Brandon Gebo, Alejandro Montes, Taylor Johnson, Eric Polczynski, Vong Martinez, Jonathan Jensen,
Paige Alba, Grace Tyler, Mireille Jawhar, Todd Bryant, Emily Carnahan.

Form email submitted by above list of citizens
Dear SLCo MPD and Commission Wendy Gurr,
Dear Salt Lake Co. Mountainous Planning District and County Planning Commissioners,
Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air
quality and sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the
economic future of our state. To this end, I support the leadership of Salt Lake County’s Mountains
Planning District and the Salt Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation
Zones.
I support the following revisions of Salt Lake County Ordinances:
Prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or
concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand,
gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay
Zone."
Establish a process for the County planning director to decide whether or not a use not listed is
prohibited or related to a conditional or permitted use in the relevant ordinances.
A 600 plus acres mine, or any industrialization of the Wasatch’s watershed is inconsistent with the
values of our communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this
proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value
the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.

The following citizen submitted the form email and added the following additional
comments:
Kaiya Bockino
I have lived in Salt Lake City on and off for the last decade and most recently I'm moving back to the
area and just found out about this devastating project. I am an avid outdoor user and this new mine is
the worst news I've heard in a long time...that's saying a lot since we have to endure 2020 and 2021.
The air quality is already a factor that has impacted not only the environment and our health, but Salt
Lake County has lost a significant amount of money when the Outdoor Retail Show moved because of
the lack of action of addressing air quality. Many business suffered who used to rely on that income
from the event. Further actions such as introducing a mine will prevent events such as the OR Show
and other environmentally-conscious industries from coming to the valley.

GRANITE
COMMUNITY
COUNCIL
February 03, 2022

To:

Salt Lake County — Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission
Granite Community Council

From:
Re:

Amendment of Section 19.12.030 of the Salt Lake County Code to eliminate

mineral extraction and processing as a conditional use and explicitly prohibiting
the same and similar uses in the Forestry and Recreation zones; amending Section
19.72.190 to eliminate mineral extraction and processing as a use for which
waivers can be granted; amending section 19.76.030 regarding classification of
permitted and conditional uses not listed in title 19; and enacting regulations.

Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission:
The Granite Community Council (GCC) held discussion February 02, 2022,
regarding the above.

The full members of the GCC align with the position of the

League of Unicorporated Community Councils (LUCC) and the Association of
Community Councils Together (ACCT) and Salt Lake County in supporting Salt
Lake County to amend the above Ordinance, which eliminates new mineral
extraction and processing as a conditional use in Parley's Canyon and the
Forestry Recreation zones.

Michael

Braun

Granite Community Council/District 1 and 2 Representative
PC: GCC records archive

(GCC Minutes documentation February 02, 2022) the Granite Community Council authorizes Councilman
Michael Braun to compose and distribute a letter on behalf of the Council endorsing the position of
statements recently submitted by LUCC and ACCT regarding an Amendment to Salt Lake County code
integral to mineral extraction and processing in Parleys Canyon and the Wasatch Front Forestry and
Recreation zones)

Leagueof UnincorporatedCommunityCouncils
PO BOX 900904, SANDY, UTAH, 84090-0904, 801-568-0613

A

Date:

Corrunit

February 03, 2022

Dear Mayor Jenny Wilson and the SLCo. Council,
At the last general meeting of the League of Unincorporated Community Councils (LUCC),
we discussed the "Proposed Parley's Canyon Mine," Notice of Intent (NOI) for a Small
Mining Operation and Notice of Intent (NOI) for a Large Mining Operation up Parleys
Canyon, West of the Mount Aire area, in Salt Lake County. During this discussion it came
to our attention that the owners of this property in question, were not forthcoming as to
their intent for the use of this property, to their surrounding property owners and/or
stakeholders, of this area. We believe that mining this area poses too many risks and
damage to the health, safety, and environment of the eco system, its wildlife, and
surrounding water systems for this area.

Ill' rte,111ow "eat

Community Council

Willow
Canyon
ommunity

Therefore, it is the position of the League of Unincorporated Community Councils (LUCC)
to recommend that these permits, "NOI for a Small Mining Operation Permit" and "NOI for
a Large Mining Operation Permit," be DENIED. Our decision is based on the overwhelming
outcry of concerns by our community residents and stakeholders who live or own property
near, and/or around this area in question. The property owners, have asked LUCC, a 501c4 non-profit organization that, "Exercises, promotes and protects the privileges and
interests of the residents of SLCo," as a recommending body for the Unincorporated
areas to local, State, and Federal governments, to support their position in denying the
NOI permits for this area.
Parleys Canyon: Parleys Canyon, with its scenic beauty and majestic features, serves as
one of Salt Lake County, Summit County, and Salt Lake City's most precious gems. Parleys
Canyon serves as a gateway for our visitors to the capital city and our famous Olympic
facilities, local ski resorts, and Park City.
Health and Safety:
Residents and property owners living or staying near and/or around the proposed area of
mining, have concerns that they will be subject to toxic materials and waste, as a result of
the proposed mining activities.
Environmental Damage: We believe that mining this area will pose too many risks and
damage to the surrounding environment, eco system, its wildlife, and water systems for
this area. Residents and property owners in the unincorporated areas surrounding this
mine have communicated their concerns for their watershed. The watershed "zone" for
this proposed area of mining is also of concern, especially since the State of Utah has been
in such a drastic drought situation that will most likely get worse with increased
populations.
We believe that this is not an acceptable mining location for any of our unincorporated
citizens residing in or owning property around, the Mount Aire area, in Salt Lake County.
Please do not allow or permit these NOI(s) to move forward.
Sincerely ypurs,

on Faerlfer, Chairman
League of Unincorporated Community Councils

Cc: Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Evan Johnson
Wendy Gurr
Concerns about new mine in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Thursday, February 3, 2022 12:04:23 PM

To Whom It May Concern,
While I understand the argument for mining construction aggregate close to where it is used...
I am very concerned about the impacts of a new large mine in Parley's Canyon.
Impacts include:
1. Elk and other wildlife habitat
2. Proximity to popular recreation trails like Grandeur, Millcreek and Lambs Canyon
3. Truck traffic on I-80 in Parley's canyon
4. Homeowners in Lamb's canyon
5. Water quality in Parley's Creek, which runs through the dog park and nature preserve
It seems like this location for a new mine is not ideal, and I understand that the Salt Lake Co.
Mountainous Planning District and the County Planning Commissioners have some tools to
prevent the development of this mine:
1. Revising the Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit mineral extraction
2. Adding a process for County commissioners if a use is prohibited by an Ordinance
Thank you for your time in carefully considering the impact of a large new mining operation
in SL County, and its impact on residents like us.
Evan Johnson
Millcreek, UT 84109

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Devin O’Donnell
Wendy Gurr
No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Thursday, February 3, 2022 1:47:01 PM

Dear SLCo MPD and Commission Wendy Gurr,
Dear Salt Lake Co. Mountainous Planning District and County Planning Commissioners,
I really don’t understand how much clearer anyone on this planet can make it for you. The
world is on fire, we are over utilizing natural resources, and the Utah air is already lethal.
That’s not a joke, our air kills people in the immediate and causes long term health issues over
time.
We don’t need another source of pollution. Our natural beauties in this state are what keeps
bringing people here. The fact that our relatively tiny Salt Lake Valley is already surrounded
by two petroleum refineries, three natural gas power plants, a rocket fuel test center, and one
of the largest open pit mines in the world is more than enough.
The health and well-being of our citizens should matter far more than the greed of industry
and the tax commission.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
Devin O’Donnell

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

SaJatah Boyle
Wendy Gurr
No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Thursday, February 3, 2022 10:47:51 AM

Dear SLCo MPD and Commission Wendy Gurr,
Dear District and Commissioners,
The wilderness of the Wasatch Mountains is the proverbial golden goose for our communities.
That wilderness provides our water, our air, and our much needed escapes and connections
with nature.
Mining the Wasatch Mountains, at this stage in our development and growth as a state, would
be killing the golden goose. It would threaten our communities life-support systems and it
would remove the very thing so many people are moving to this area for — it’s proximity to
beautiful wilderness.
No one wants a home built from the mountain next door they can no longer enjoy.
Please move forward with your proposals to block these kinds of developments or industries in
our mountains moving forward.
Thank you so much.
Sincerely,
SaJatah Boyle

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Linda
Wendy Gurr
Parley"s Canyon mine
Thursday, February 3, 2022 12:04:05 PM

I am writing to express my very negative opinion about the proposed mine
in Parley's Canyon. I am unable to join the virtual meeting this
afternoon, but would like to note my support for Salt Lake County's
proposed ordinance to prohibit mining in the Wasatch Canyons,
specifically in Parley's Canyon.
Thank you.
Linda Oswald
Resident of Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County

Carmelle M. Wilde

February 3, 2022

Salt Lake County Mountainous Planning District Planning Commissioners
State of Utah
Attention: Wendy Gurr, wgurr@msd.utah.gov
Re: Comment Letter regarding Parley’s Canyon Proposed Mine for:
● MDP public hearing on Thursday, February 3, 2022 at 4:00 PM
● Salt Lake County Planning Commission public hearing on Wednesday, February 16,
2022 at 8:30 AM
Dear Salt Lake County Mountainous Planning District and County Planning Commissioners,
Tree Farm, LLC is in the process of trying to pass a proposal to begin a mining operation
adjacent to Mt Aire Canyon and needs to be stopped! (Entity #11509771-0160, Owner: Jesse
Lassley.)
Tree Farm, LLC submitted a proposal that did not even mention the existence of a residential
area (Mt. Aire Canyon), where families and cabin dwellers live and recreate year-round, located
0.25 miles away from the proposed quarry line (the equivalent of two city blocks). This is an
absolutely unethical and dishonest business practice. (Jesse Lassley sold his property in Mt.
Aire recently and is well aware of the community here in the canyon!)
Limestone mining should not be permitted in such close proximity to a canyon where family
cabins and recreational property are used on a daily basis year-round. The impact this will have
on the environment and the health of residents would be detrimental.
Limestone quarrying, which would include drilling, crushing, and transportation of the rock would
create dust. Air currents, winds and moisture would surely carry this dust easily to our homes in
Mt. Aire Canyon and would negatively impact the quality of living and health for all residents.
Small dust particles may contain respirable crystalline silica that would damage the lungs and
airways of residents and children here in the canyon. Exposure to this dust could lead to lung
cancer, silicosis, kidney, and pulmonary diseases.
According to the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, “Solid
materials in the form of smoke, dust, and vapor generated during quarrying can usually suspend
over a long distance in the air, and particulate matter in the air is transported from the
generation point to other far areas. If the quarries are located in places where there is a living

population, people living in the area will also be exposed to dust. Environmental exposure to
dust has been raised as an important issue to consider among populations living close to
quarries in different areas around the world. Previous studies found that people residing close to
quarry sites have a higher prevalence of respiratory symptoms compared to those not exposed
to quarry dust. Specific reported adverse health effects by people who reside nearby quarry
sites include nasal infection, cough, and asthma. Additionally, a study investigated how the
ecosystem and residents were possibly affected by nearby quarry activity found out that the
frequency of certain symptoms such as cough, sneezing, and asthma, and illnesses have
increased after quarry activities in the area began.”
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7504702/)
The Safety Data Sheet on limestone states, “Dust generated during handling and use may
contain respirable crystalline silica (quartz). Prolonged inhalation to respirable crystalline silica
may cause silicosis.”
(https://www.nesl.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/11/Limestone-SDS.pdf)
The proposed mine is about a quarter of a mile from my cabin, where I reside with my husband
and two children year-round. This is absolutely hazardous to the health of my family and
neighbors.
In such close proximity, in addition to dust particle dangers, blasting would also create potential
noise level and ground vibration problems. This kind of land disturbance would disrupt
day-to-day living and prove potentially life threatening with possible seismic impacts on our
structures (cabins/homes, landscaping, road).
Mining pits would also disturb the ecosystem around this beautiful canyon and ruin the aesthetic
nature of the area while also destroying the habitat for the species of animals that frequent the
canyon (deer, elk, moose, cougars, squirrels, birds, etc.).
I protest this mining proposal for reasons mentioned above and request that it be rejected
immediately. Please forward
this letter to appropriate parties that can assist in stopping the actions of Tree Farm, LLC.
Thank you for your attention to this issue.
Best regards,
Carmelle M. Wilde (Mt. Aire Resident for 15+ years)

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Suzanne Stensaas
Wendy Gurr
Parley"s Canyon Quarry Permit
Thursday, February 3, 2022 2:54:01 PM

I oppose this proposal and I have looked at the complete proposal. I recreate in the area of Mt Air,
Grandeur Peak, and Summit Park.
I live by Parley’s way and am familiar with the entire area. This is an treacherous proposal first for
health, wildlife and water quality and second because the Wastach Mountains are of themselves a
precious resource, attraction and environmental asset to those living along the Wasatch Front and
those who visit us. I am shocked that such a proposal might even be legal. It should not be
permitted and County and State regulations should be changed. To mu h development is not good.
We must preserve what is irreparable.

Please oppose this requested permit
Suzanne S. Stensaas

