Required Rulemaking
Utah Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Natasha Ballif

Basalt Definition
Updating the definition to reflect 2021 legislation changes

• R647-1-106
– “Basalt” (a) means fine-grained [dark-colored igneous rock associated with
a lava flow or igneous intrusion composed primarily of plagioclase and
pyroxene]mafic igneous rock formed in the tertiary or quaternary periods.
(b) A Utah Geological Survey or [the]a United States Geological Survey
published [maps that classify]map that classified material as “basalt” is
prima facie evidence that the material meets the requirements of
Subsection (a). An unmapped area [can]may be classified by a Utah
Geological Survey geologist or a [licensed] professional geologist licensed
in the state.

Form 15 Submittal Timeframe
Changing form submittal from 90 days to 180 days
• R649-3-23
–

6. For the purpose of qualifying for a tax credit under Utah Code Ann. Section 59-5-102(7), the
operator on his behalf and on behalf of each working interest owner must file a request with the
division on Form 15, Designation of Workover or Recompletion. The request must be filed within
[90]180 days after completing the workover or recompletion operations.

• R649-8-17
–

1. In accordance with Rule R649-3-23, each operator desiring to claim a tax credit for workover or
recompletion work performed must submit this report within [90]180 days after the workover or
recompletion work is completed. Upon determination and notification by the division that the
described work qualifies for a tax credit under this rule, the operator may claim the tax credit on
reports submitted to the Tax Commission during the third quarter after completion of the work.

Class IV Injection Well Comment Period
Changing comment timeframe from 15 days to 30 days
• R649-5-3
– 3. If no written objection to the application for administrative approval of an injection
well is received by the division within [15]30 days after the publication of the notice of
agency action, or an aquifer exemption is not required in accordance with Section
R649-5-4, and a board hearing is not otherwise required, the application may be
considered and approved administratively.
– 4. If a written objection to an application for administrative approval of an injection
well is received by the division within [15]30 days after publication of the notice of
application, or if a hearing is required by these rules or deemed advisable by the
director, the application shall be set for notice and hearing by the board.

Form 10 Monthly Submittal Process
Change
Changing Form 10 to be submitted electronically

• R649-8-11
– 1. [The division will provide this report monthly to operators of all oil and gas wells
within the state. Each operator shall complete the form to properly account for all oil,
gas, and water produced from each well.]Each operator is required to electronically
submit Form 10 monthly to properly account for all oil, gas, and water produced from
each well. The form may be found on the division’s oil and gas website.

