Dear Members of the Salt Lake County Planning Commission,

Thank you for the opportunity to comment on these important matters that confront our
community and our Wasatch Mountains.
We applaud the action taken by the Salt Lake County Council to prohibit uses in our
ordinances, particularly those uses which are clearly incompatible with both the FR zones
and FCOZ. As you are looking at these issues, and contemplating a recommendation to the
Salt Lake County Council we want to offer these few recommendations to the ordinances
under consideration.
General Comments on proposed changes to the ordinances
1. Any zone in Salt Lake County can be applied for in the areas that the Foothills and
Canyons Overlays Zone covers. As we look at strengthening ordinances to protect
what is most important to our community and these mountains it seems the only
zones that should be able to coexist with FCOZ are the FR, FM and MRZ zones. All
other zoning ordinances should be excluded.
2. Determinations of prohibited uses not specified in the ordinance should happen via a
public process vetted by planning commissions rather than by the County Planning
Director. Given the overwhelming public interest in these Foothills and Canyons
environments and the importance of them to our communities, prioritizing a public
process rather than an administrative decision to be appealed establishes a better
process which should yield better decisions and understanding of the implications or
benefits of a use not contemplated by the ordinance.
3. Continuation of that theme… we really need to push ourselves to be exhaustive,
thorough and deliberate when it comes to what uses should take place in our
Foothills and Canyons environments. We 100% agree that the uses contemplated by
the ordinance should be prohibited and are a good start, but what other uses should
be categorized as prohibited, permitted or conditional. Planning with intent and
conviction, backed by ordinance is the surest way to attain the future our community
collectively wishes to realize.
4. Avoidance of impacts must become more of a priority. The Salt Lake Valley not only
has within the past 12 months had the worst air quality in the country, but the worst
air quality in the world. It is true that our unique geography contributes to that. Both
our water and our air issues are deserving of ordinances that proactively protect
these resources where state and federal law have risked the lives of our
communities for decades. We need to do more to avoid the putrification of public

resources and prohibiting known uses that further exacerbate already degraded
resources is the best way to do it.

Purposes of Forestry and Recreation Zone (FR) and Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
(FCOZ)
Salt Lake County has a sordid history with incompatibility of uses within its zones. The purpose
statement of both the FR and FCOZ ordinances are important, and in some instances the uses
allowed are incompatible with those statements. The FR zone states, “The purpose of the
forestry and recreation zones is to permit the development of the foothill and canyon areas of
the county for forestry, recreation, and other specified uses to the extent such development is
compatible with the protection of the natural and scenic resources of these areas for the
continued benefit of future generations.”

Further, the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ) has a synergistic purpose to that
of the FR zone.
“The general purpose of the foothills and canyons overlay zone is to promote safe,
environmentally sensitive development that strikes a reasonable balance between the rights and
long-term interests of property owners and those of the general public. Specifically, these
standards are intended to:
A. Preserve the visual and aesthetic qualities of the foothills, canyons, and prominent ridgelines
as defined herein, contributing to the general attractiveness and, where appropriate, the
commercial viability of these areas.
B. Protect public health and safety by adopting standards designed to reduce risks associated
with natural and man-made hazards.
C. Provide efficient, environmentally sensitive, and safe vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
D. Encourage development that conforms to the natural contours of the land and minimizes the
scarring and erosion effects of cutting, filling and grading on hillsides, ridgelines, and steep
slopes.
E. Balance private and commercial needs against the risk of destabilizing fragile soils, defacing
steep slopes and degrading water quality.
F. Minimize disturbance to existing trees and vegetation, conserve wildlife habitat, protect
aquifer recharge areas, and otherwise preserve environmentally sensitive natural areas by
encouraging clustering, the transfer of development rights, or other design techniques to
preserve the natural terrain.
G. Reduce flooding by protecting streams, drainage channels, absorption areas, and
floodplains.
H. Protect property rights and commercial interests, and encourage economic development.
I. Recognize the link between environmental protection and economic prosperity in the
canyons.”
It is worth noting that the Utah Supreme Court has noted inconsistencies with Salt Lake
County’s ordinances, these ordinances in this very canyon, surrounding this very issue of a
gravel operation.

In 2004, the Utah Supreme Court found that gravel pit operations are incompatible with the
purpose of the FR-20 Zone, stating: “[t]he allowance of a gravel pit operation also appears to be
inconsistent with the stated purpose of the FR–20 Zone, which is ‘to permit the development of
the foothill and canyon areas of the county for forestry, recreation, and other specified uses to
the extent that such development is compatible with the protection of the natural and scenic
resources of these areas for the continued benefit of future generations.’ Salt Lake County,
Utah, Code § 19.12.010. The considerable damage that would necessarily result to both the
natural and scenic resources from any gravel pit operation would be inconsistent with this
purpose.” See Carrier v. Salt Lake Cty., 2004 UT 98, ¶ 36, 104 P.3d 1208, 1218, abrogated by
Outfront Media, LLC v. Salt Lake City Corp., 2017 UT 74, ¶ 36, 416 P.3d 389.

We see Salt Lake County’s action to modify these ordinances as a proactive step to bring
consistency to the ordinance’s, even though it has been nearly 20 years since the ruling.
In addition to these general comments on the ordinance, we believe it is important that the
specific impacts of mining, gravel pit, or other large scale excavation projects we seek to
avoid, and community values our ordinances seek to help protect.
Reasons to specifically prohibit mining gravel and related activities
Aesthetic
There’s little debate, the beauty and wildness, the aesthetics of the Wasatch are unmatched.
The peaks of the Wasatch rise sharply from the valley floor some 7,000 feet, forming the
eastern extent of the basin and range province of the western United States.

Looking south across Parley’s Canyon at the Wasatch massif on Feb. 12, 2022

Salt Lake County’s ordinances specifically call for the protection and preservation of the
aesthetic and visual characteristics of the Wasatch Mountains: the protection of ridgelines, the
composition of the foothills, the canyons and the general attractiveness of the region. The

ordinances go on to specifically call out the conformance “to the natural contours of the land,
and minimizes the scarring and erosion effects of cutting, filling and grading on hillsides,
ridgelines, and steep slopes.” Nothing about a mine minimizes the destruction to these areas
covered by the ordinance. The activity is in blatant and direct conflict with long standing policies
and ordinances put in places to protect this area.

Forestry
Climate change and prolonged drought (the longest in 1,200 years we’ve just learned) have
spurred local, state and federal governments to improve the health of our forests, which in the
arid west are also critical watersheds and wildlife habitat (more in the sections below). This
prioritization was memorialized in a May 2019 agreement between the State of Utah and the
USFS, referred to as “Shared Stewardship”. Parleys Canyon is the current priority for this area,
noting significant risk to Parleys and adjoining watersheds that provide culinary water for two
rapidly growing Utah counties: Salt Lake and Summit. With so many resources being pursued to
improve forest health, thereby watershed health and wildlife habitat and reduction
vulnerabilities, to introduce a massive mine, is incongruous with local, state and federal
investments in forest health and the Parleys Watershed. It is worth noting that one of the highest
risk areas for wildfire surrounds the Gravel operation in Parleys Canyon. Factors contributing to
this condition include elevation, aspect, but also the heavily used freeway and proximity to
populations. Wildfire is a significant threat to water quality that is important to our growing
population.

Hydrology & Watershed
Being the second driest state in the country, water issues should be on the forefront of our
minds. We should not just be concerned about the loss and/or pollution of surface water, but
also of subsurface waters, particularly when activities like mining will be altering the base level
of adjoining springs, streams and creeks.
It is not unreasonable for people in the Mount Aire community, many of whom rely upon springs
in very close proximity to the proposed mine, to have their springs, streams or creeks dry up.
This not only has public health and legal impacts but it also has significant public safety impacts
as these communities also rely on this water for fire suppression.
Streams and wetlands and their setbacks need greater protection. You can’t camp closer than
200’, why should we allow any disturbance that will degrade our water and alter the natural
systems. In 2017, Salt Lake County reduced the setbacks from streams and wetlands. We
shouldn’t be deregulating and rolling back protections in the face of such intense pressures.
Protections need to be strengthened particularly as we see the devastation created by algal
blooms as temperatures warm our waters. Greater stream buffers give our streams & wetlands
more room to filter out impurities and enhance stream function and water quality.
Property Rights, commercial interests and takings
Passing this ordinance would also not give rise to a taking of property. To prevail under a total
takings theory, the property owner must demonstrate that the Ordinance “denies all
economically beneficial or productive use” of the property. Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal
Council, 505 U.S. 1003, 1015, 112 S.Ct. 2886, 120 L.Ed.2d 798 (1992). The property owner
would bear an “onerous burden in showing that there is no other use for [his] property”
especially given its unique and sought after location along the Wasatch Front. See Diamond
B–Y Ranches v. Tooele County, 2004 UT App 135,¶ 17 n. 4, 91 P.3d 841,cert. denied, 98 P.3d
1177 (Utah 2004); see also Tahoe–Sierra Pres. Council v. Tahoe Reg'l Planning Agency, 535
U.S. 302, 330, 122 S.Ct. 1465, 152 L.Ed.2d 517 (2002) (noting that the categorical rule from
Lucas “would not apply if the diminution of value were 95% instead of 100%”).
There are dozens of other uses available to property owners and while we don’t believe anyone
intends to harm the land owner, so too do we wish for their use to not cause harm to the millions
with whom they share these resources.
Recreation
The Central Wasatch Mountains (Parley’s to Little Cottonwood ) receive over 6 million annual
visits, making them one of, if not the most visited natural area in the entire State of Utah. Utah’s
“Life Elevated” brand has its base camp in Salt Lake County. Mine proximity to popular trails,
notably Grandeur Peak and the Mill Creek Crest would be less than 0.2 miles.

Looking east down the Mill Creek Crest from Granduer Peak

Wildlife
Our wildlife populations have a variety of pressures, driving them further from the region they
traditionally have called home. Climate change, drought, increased development and habitat
fragmentation, increases in visitation and recreation, the transition of seasonal to year-round
homes in mountain communities all have varied impacts on our wildlife populations and their
survival. The impacts of mining in the Wasatch will have massive impacts on wildlife. To give a
snapshot, we are providing a list of mammals observed in Parley’s Canyon, as part of the
Wasatch Wildlife project.
Species: Detections, Source: Wasatch Wildlife Watch project
- American badger: 4
- American beaver: 13
- American black bear: 4
- American red squirrel: 486
- Bobcat: 26
- Coyote: 95
- Domestic cat: 5
- Domestic dog: 57
- Eastern fox squirrel: 1
- Elk: 110
- Moose: 114
- Mountain cottontail: 10

- Mule deer: 1606
- North American porcupine: 12
- Northern flying squirrel: 73
- Northern raccoon: 192
- Puma: 27
- Red fox: 15
- Rock squirrel: 87
- Snowshoe hare: 9
- Striped skunk: 79
- Uinta ground squirrel: 1
- Yellow-bellied marmot: 1

This list is from fall and summer of 2018 and 2019 as well as fall of 2020. The program is still
analyzing photos from 2020 and 2021. The eMammal program for photo analysis is the current
priority, so avian and reptile species are not included in this list but there will obviously be
non-mammal species using the project area as well.
To provide additional context, we’ve also overlaid the Parley’s mining proposal with several data
layers provided by Utah Division of Wildlife Resources, publicly accessible through the UT
AGRC.
Rocky Mountain Elk are known inhabitants of Parleys Canyon. As you can see from the image
below, elk critical winter habitat follows the south side of Parley’s Canyon, with I-15 creating a
significant barrier to the north. New mining activity would completely and totally fragment critical
winter habitat.

The next map shows moose habitat in the Wasatch. When displaced from these habitats, not
only by the direct impacts of a mine or other intensive activity, but by the noise and other
associated impacts, it pushes these species into places where they can cause harm to humans,
be it on trails, on roadways or in communities.

Mule Deer critical habitat will also be impacted and fragmented. This image is of collar data
collected by DWR. The presence of these species in Parleys and their absence in other
recreation dominant canyons is notable. Thus the impact on these species could be quite
significant as the utilization of other places may already be well beyond desirable for certain
species with whom we share this resource.

We’ve been clear over the years that we've noted significant shortcomings in our land use
ordinances that protect our water, wildlife, air, forests and shared community values. The
ordinance proposed by the county takes a step in the right direction, but we have much
more work to do. Thank you for taking that step and now we and our community wish to
take additional steps and lend our experience, stories and expertise along the way. The
best time to strengthen our ordinances was yesterday, but the second best time is now.
We hope you find some helpful information for justification in changing the ordinance.
Thank you for your consideration,
Carl Fisher

