Julie Carter <juliecarter@utah.gov>

DOGM policy guidance
Elizabeth Dunham <dunham4@me.com>
To: juliecarter@utah.gov

Mon, Mar 21, 2022 at 3:22 PM

March 21, 2022

To: Utah Board of Oil, Gas and Mining and the Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
RE: Proposed Gravel Pit to be located in Parleys Canyon

Dear Board and Division:
This letter is in regards to Tree Farm LLC (Jesse Lassley’s) proposal and the Division's motion for policy guidance docket No.
2022-002 cause no. S/035/0053. By now it is pretty obvious that there is no economic justification for this mine in Parleys Canyon
based on the overwhelming opposition and facts of the economic cost and damage that it would impose on the Salt Lake Valley and
Wasatch Mountains. The Mayor's of all surrounding communities and counties have vocally spoken out against this proposal. The
Central Wasatch Committee has spoken out against this proposal. The medical community has spoken out against this proposal. The
Utah Hunters and Anglers have spoken out against this proposal. The business community has spoken out against this proposal. All
Community Councils have spoken out against this proposal. Overwhelming support including 24,000 residents have spoken out
against this proposal.
Therefore, the following steps that the Division has recommended are not only wise but long overdue:
1. Require public participation for Small Mine NOI’s in Class I and Class II counties;
2. Require Division approval of Small Mine NOI’s in Class I and Class II counties;
3. Require reclamation plans for Small Mine NOI’s in Class I and Class II counties;
4. Reduce the acreage of Small Mine NOI’s in Class I and Class II counties;
5. Incorporate lessons from the coal program stating, Utah’s Coal mining and Reclamation Act has a provision for designating
some areas as unsuitable for mining based on numerous considerations.
The mining industry must be aware that their industry is dependent on being part of the community instead of being forced on a
community, no different than any other industry or business. Inasmuch as, I would highly recommend a moratorium until the issues
can be addressed and policy updated.
Sincerely,

Elizabeth Dunham
dunham4@me.com

