Andrew W. Smith
2385 E. Stringham Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109-1222
801-718-1509 Cell • awsmith4@comcast.net
March 22, 2022

FILED
MARCH 22 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
Members of the Board of the Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
RE:

Division’s Motion for Police Guidance and
Tree Farm, LLC’s proposed quarry gravel pit in lower Parleys Canyon.

Dear Members of the Division and the Board,
I am writing in regards to recent actions taken on Docket No. 2022-002-Request for Agency Action by Tree Farm
LLC. They have withdrawn both the SMO and LMO Notices of Intent and will be moving to re-file a new SMO
NOI in the near future. Tree Farm cannot hide the fact that their long-term intention and goal is to operate a large
gravel pit mining operation on 634 acres in the lower part of Parleys Canyon. If Tree Farm begins with a newly
filed SMO NOI, it is easy to see this is a shifty tactic and attempt to expand into a LMO in the near future.
I ask the Division and the Board to move forward quickly to make changes to mining policies and rules based on
the ideas and suggestions in the “Motion for Policy Guidance”. To do so, is in the best interest of the State and the
required planning, policies and infrastructure needed for the projected population growth in Utah’s future.
FILED

MARCH 22 2022

SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

I also ask the Division to enact a moratorium on all SMO and LMO NOIs in Class 1 and Class 2 counties until a
thorough examination and a broader study of all the issues and facts have been completed and resolved. Time is
needed to make the desired changes in policies and rules regulating mining operations in the State.
There is much opposition to a gravel pit in Parleys Canyon from citizens, communities, government agencies and
environmental groups. Many have voiced serious concerns about issues and negative impacts any mining operation
in our local Forestry and Recreation Zones in the Wasatch Mountains will have on our lives, communities and
environment. My letter is not to repeat those concerns and arguments, only to offer some additional and related
information and reasons for your consideration.
In the Division’s recent “Motion for Policy Guidance” filed March 17, 2022, it requests guidance from the Board
concerning alternative solutions to the “Cause” and possible legislative or rulemaking changes. The document
begins with the projected population growth in Utah and states: “will increase by 66% over the next four decades”
and references a current 2021 study. I looked at this and other studies and have some additional points to consider
as you look inside the numbers.
1) Yes, Utah is one of the top growth states and there will be a continual need for mined materials; however, the
66% growth figure over the next four decades equates to an average annual rate of 1.65%. Looking inside the
numbers, projections and historical data brings helpful information to one’s analysis. I studied Utah’s past four
decades, and based on US Census data from 1980 to 2020, the growth rate was 120% over those forty years, or
an average annual rate of 3%. In comparison, the projected rate for the next forty years is much less than the
past forty years – 1.65% to 3%. It is also important to look at the absolute total number of people in the growth.
Over the last forty years 1.8 million people were added in Utah; and, the next forty years is projected to add 2.2
million people. The projected growth rate appears to be dropping significantly. The total number of people
added is larger, but not significantly higher. The State of Utah has managed this additional 1.8 million people
without a 634-acre gravel pit in Parleys Canyon. I am quite certain Utah can manage the next forty years without
destroying a large part Parleys Canyon and the Wasatch Front Mountains. I support the Division’s current focus
on the future planning, requirements and policy changes needed to manage all the growth projected in Utah.

2) My next point is to analyze the absolute number of people in this growth, not just the percentage by itself.
Population growth consists of “natural increase” [births over deaths] and “net migration” [people moving in].
Over the past seven years, the study shows the breakdown to be about a 50/50 split. The trends indicating “net
migration” will increase and “natural increase” will decrease in the coming years. Please consider the dynamics
of both sources of population growth. These dynamics add great complexity to understanding population growth
and the required policies and planning in order to support such growth. I bring this point up to help recognize
the complexity of supporting population growth in Utah. This complexity makes even a stronger case for the
immediate need to discuss and enact changes as stated in the “Motion for Policy Guidance”. I support this
motion and the four suggestions outlined by the Division and the mention of incorporating lessons from the
Coal Program. I support the Division and the Board in moving forward to study this growth and make the
needed changes in policies and rules in preparation of Utah’s growth.
3) My next point is the analysis of “where” the population growth will occur. The 2021 study presents the top
areas in the state where this projected growth will happen. New mining operations should be driven by where
the projected growth will take place. Here is a breakdown of the top areas:
a) Utah County
33.0%
b) Washington County
12.5%
c) Davis County
7.7%
d) Iron County
6.1%
e) Cache County
6.0%
f) Tooele County
5.1%
g) Weber County
5.0%
h) This totals
75.4% of the total
i) Salt Lake County
j) Summit County
k) This totals

15.9%
0.8%
16.7% of the total

l)

7.9% of the total

Rest of Utah

Only 16.7% of the projected population growth or in absolute numbers, about 372,000 people, over the next
forty years will be in close proximity to a gravel pit located in lower Parleys Canyon. A Parleys Canyon gravel
pit of any size will not provide a reasonable benefit to 83.3% of the growth or 1,832,000 people and the
supporting infrastructure and planning required; therefore, new mining operations should be located nearer to
the projected growth areas throughout the State. Updated and improved policies and rules are needed.
4) My final point is the Salt Lake valley already operates numerous sand and gravel mining operations with all
their accompanying health and environmental problems. While the majority of the projected population growth
is outside the Salt Lake valley, the largest current population lives within the Salt Lake valley and currently
suffers the negative health, safety and environmental impacts of large and close mining operations. A large
Parleys Canyon gravel pit is not needed and it will greatly increase the negative impacts in the Salt Lake valley.
In conclusion, I ask the Division and the Board to move forward to make changes to Utah’s mining policies and
rules based on the ideas and suggestions in the “Motion for Policy Guidance” and be focused on the health and
safety of the public, and where the population growth will occur. I also urge the Division to enact a moratorium on
all SMO and LMO NOIs in Class 1 and Class 2 counties until a thorough examination and a broader study of all
the issues and facts have been completed and resolved.
Thank you for your time and consideration.

Andrew W. Smith
801-718-1509 cell
awsmith4@comcast.net

