FILED
March 21, 2022

MARCH 21 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

TO:

Utah Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining
Utah Board of Oil, Gas, and Mining

RE:

Tree Farm LLC gravel pit proposed for Lower Parleys Canyon

Dear Division and Board Members,
I submit this letter in consideration of Tree Farm’s recent action to withdraw its SMO NOI and
LMO NOI, and in anticipation of its upcoming SMO NOI filing. I petition DOGM to immediately
enact a temporary moratorium on SMO NOI applications until existing regulations can be
clarified. I shall endeavor to explain my reasons below.
First, Tree Farm has stated candidly that their long-term intent is to create a large 634-acre
gravel pit in Lower Parleys Canyon. Although the applicant recently withdrew its two
concurrently-filed NOIs and intends to file a new SMO NOI, this is a procedural technicality. The
applicant’s goal appears unchanged – to gain expedited approval to commence a small mine
operation within the footprint of an eventual large mine operation. Indeed, their settlement with
DOGM dated 16 March 2022 explicitly states that Tree Farm reserves the right to file for later
expansion. Meanwhile, their own website continues to argue the “merits” of a large mine in
Parleys Canyon. And Mr. Lassley and Granite Construction recently employed similar
maneuvers1 in order to quickly establish a large 116-acre Coyote Pit mine in Tooele. I will point
out that Tree Farm has been accused of seeking to circumvent statuatory and regulatory review
process,2 and has also been accused of making deceptive statements.3 I urge the Division and
Board to not lose sight of these points.
Second, Utah Code 40-8-7(1)(j) grants authority and broad discretion to the Board and the
Division to require that “mining operations be conducted to minimize or prevent hazards to
public health and safety.” As you know, this authority applies to small mining operations as well
as large mining operations. The proposed Tree Farm gravel pit carries myriad health and safety
concerns, which have been raised repeatedly by at least two municipalities, numerous
community councils, many activist groups, adjacent landowners, and hundreds of public
commentators. Nearly 24,000 petition signers oppose this project. Because the proposed mine
is in such close proximity to high-density urban areas, it is wholly appropriate for DOGM to
require Tree Farm to address these concerns before any mining operations commence.

1

https://www.ogm.utah.gov/minerals/mineralsfilesbypermit.php?S0450097

2

See Supplimental Brief of Intervenor Millcreek City, filed 17 Mar 2022

3

In the Division’s response dated 10 February 2021, the Attorney General’s office argued that Tree Farm
had made statements that were “deceiving,” that Tree Farm ignored relevant documents “in order to
advance this baseless claim,” that Tree Farm was unable to prove a claim “because it is patently false,”
etc.

Third, Tree Farm has asserted that DOGM only has the right to approve SMO NOIs. However,
in a brief dated 10 Jan 2022, the Attorney General’s office argued that DOGM also has authority
to deny small mine applications (invoking the “Absurdity Doctrine”). Moreover, in the Division’s
Response filed 10 Feb 2022, the Division “encourage[d] the Board of Oil, Gas and Mining
(“Board”) not to dismiss this concern as Petitioner has [done],” stating that “[a]dopting
Petitioner’s interpretation of the Act would have widespread implications for the Division’s future
administration of the Act and the Division’s Administrative Rules...” Has this matter been
resolved to the satisfaction of all parties? Do the AG Office, the Board, the Division, and the
applicant all agree that The Division indeed has the right to “deny” SMO NOIs? Or does this
fundamental question regarding the authority of DOGM remain undetermined, even at a time
when the Division anticipates the filing of a contentious new SMO NOI?
Fourth and finally, just days ago on 17 March 2022, the Division sent the Board a “Motion for
Policy Guidance.” In this filing, the Division essentially acknowledged that current rules and laws
do not adequately contemplate issues that the Division anticipates will affect future applicants.
The Division then offered several recommendations, which I fully support, including but not
limited to 1) a new designation for mines located in “counties of the first class,” 2) a required
public comment period for small mine operations, 3) a reclamation requirement for SMOs, 4) a
halving of the operating acreage for SMOs, and 5) a treatment similar to the coal industry where
some locales are designated “unsuitable for mining activity.”
In light of the points above, I recommend that DOGM move to clarify these now-acknowledged
areas of ambiguity. As an interested person, operating under Utah Code 40-6-10 as I
understand it, I petition the DOGM to immediately issue an emergency order, in the form of a
temporary moratorium on new SMO and LMO applications, until these matters can be clarified. I
believe such action is in the long-term interest of mining applicants, the State and its agencies,
The Division and Board staff, counsel and jurists, and Utah taxpayers.
Best Regards
Justin Wilde
PO Box 520002
SLC, UT 84152
801-633-9369

