Proposed Ordinance
Amendment
MOUNTAINOUS PLANNING DISTRICT
PLANNING COMMISSION
PUBLIC HEARING
FEBRUARY 3, 2022

Background
 County has been engaged in the process of assessing and
considering amendments to the Forestry and Recreation (FR).
 Recent Notices of Intention to begin mining operations with the
Utah Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining, raised the question of
whether mineral extraction and processing should continue to be a
conditional use in the FR zone.
 On December 10, 2021, the Salt Lake County Council voted to
formally initiate proceedings to amend the County Code.

Proposed Code Amendments
 Eliminate mineral extraction and processing as a
conditional use and explicitly prohibit the same and
similar uses in the Forestry and Recreation (FR) zone.
(Section 19.12.030 )

 Eliminate mineral extraction and processing as a use
for which waivers can be granted in the Foothills and
Canyon Overlay Zone (FCOZ). (Section 19.72.190 )
 Provide clarification regarding how permitted and
conditional uses are classified. (Section 19.76.030 )

Public Notice (Utah Code 17-27a-205)
 Community Council Notice (12/17/2021)
The notice explained how Community Councils may submit
comments and provide comments to the Planning Commission
 Public notice was mailed to affected entities (1/13/2022)
 Notice posted in three public locations and on the Utah Public
Notice Website (>10 days prior to hearing)
 Comments received distributed to Commission and posted on
website

Purpose of Forestry & Recreation Zone
“The purpose of the forestry and recreation zones is
to permit the development of the foothill and canyon
areas of the county for forestry, recreation, and other
specified uses to the extent such development is
compatible with the protection of the natural and
scenic resources of these areas for the continued
benefit of future generations.” (SLC Code 19.12.010)

Existing Uses Allowed
 Gravel Pits, Quarries and Mines allowed in:
1. S-1-G Zone – The purpose of the S-1-G zone is to
permit extraction of gravel and similar natural
resources in the county.
2. M-2 Zone – The purpose of the M-2 zone is to provide
areas in the county for heavy industrial uses.
 Existing approved, permitted, and operational mineral
extraction/processing and similar uses would be legal
nonconforming uses.

Options and Recommendation
The Planning Commission has three options:
1. Recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to
Council; or
2. Recommend approval of the ordinance with amendments
to Council; or
3. Recommend denial of the ordinance to Council.
Staff recommends the Planning Commission recommend
approval as proposed to the Salt Lake County Council.

