From: Save Our Canyons <carl@saveourcanyons.org>
To: Jake Young <jayoung@slco.org>
Subject:
Important Update About Parley’s Canyon
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2022 13:34:21 -0600
Importance: Normal

🌲

🌲

Hello Jake,
Next week, on April 5th, there is an important public hearing at the Salt Lake County Council to make mineral
extraction, mining and gravel pits a prohibited use in our Wasatch Mountains. As an organization who has worked
on issues in the Wasatch now for 50 years, we have to say it is about time!
With so many issues confronting our land, air and water in Salt Lake County, these changes will help protect our
mountains, foothills and canyons, our air and the water that flow from and around them, for current and future
generations from the devastating impacts of mining and gravel operations. While we are concerned the county isn't
being comprehensive enough in its listing of prohibited uses — it is good they are starting somewhere.
There are two ways you can help protect the Wasatch Mountains from being defaced and destroyed by this
proposed mining operation:
1. TAKE ACTION by sending a comment to your County Council Representatives and Mayor Wilson supporting
Salt Lake County’s draft ordinance
2. Attend the Salt Lake County Council Meeting April 5th (Tuesday) at 4PM. This meeting will be held both in
person and virtually.
1. Person Meeting: Salt Lake County Bldg. 2001 South State Street (rm. N1-110) MAP
2. Virtual Meeting: Follow Salt Lake County Council meeting link HERE. An audio live-stream of the Council
and Committee of the Whole meetings will also be available. When a meeting begins, there will be an "In
Progress" link that opens up the live-stream.

On December 10, 2021, the Salt Lake County Council unanimously initiated an ordinance change to two important
zones that govern land use in the Wasatch Mountains of Salt Lake County - the Forest Recreation Zone (FR) and
the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ). As long time members and supporters of Save Our Canyons know,
we need policies that protect the Wasatch and while these changes are not as exhaustive as we'd hope, they are
needed.
In February, Salt Lake County held two public hearings before the Salt Lake County Planning Commissions and
Mountainous Planning Commission, where 100% of the public comment was in support of the proposed changes to
the ordinances.
Even if you have commented before to Planning Commissions or State Leaders (known to ignore
their constituents) this is a great opportunity to engage with your elected officials in Salt Lake
County. Show them you want a more responsive and receptive outcome than we see at the State.
TAKE ACTION by sending a comment to your County Council Representatives and Mayor
Wilson supporting Salt Lake County’s draft ordinance

On April 5th (Tuesday) at 4PM plan on attending the Salt Lake County Council Meeting in person or virtually. The
Wasatch and our community so reliant on a healthy environment are reliant upon your action.

Help Us Protect The Wasatch,
Carl Fisher
Executive Director
Save Our Canyons

Dedicated to protecting the wildness and beauty of the Wasatch Mountains
www.saveourcanyons.org
info@saveourcanyons.org

Follow Us

Unsubscribe or Manage Your
Preferences

