From: ANDREW SMITH <awsmith4@comcast.net>
To: Aimee Winder Newton <ANewton@slco.org>
Subject: Re: Comments Letter about Parleys Canyon Proposed Mine
Date: Mon, 31 Jan 2022 10:44:34 -0700
Importance: Normal

Aimee,
Thank you for your reply and reading our letter. I attended the special meeting on December 10th last
year and witnessed the unanimous vote to begin the change process to the County's ordinances
regarding mining operations. It was great to see you and the other council members in action. I would
imagine most council meetings average much more than just about 12-13 minutes. Great to see such
decisive and swift action take place. This proposed mine was a big surprise to many people, and a
very serious one when it comes to protecting our Wasatch Front foothills and the quality of life in the
Valley. So, thank you.
Ever since this news broke about the proposed Parleys Canyon quarry mine (now to be known as I-80
South Quarry – see below), I have been following the developments, actions and updates very
closely. My family is a Mtn. Aire community property owner, ever since 1960. A large group from the
Mtn. Aire community (over 115) mobilized and organized back in November.
We have also sent many comment letters to:
Board of DOGM
Mountainous Planning District Commissioners
SL County Planning Commissioners
Many of the local Community Council memberships
State and Local Officials
If you feel inclined to share, what in your opinion would be the best and most compelling data,
information, comments, evidence and materials to support the opposition efforts and to support the
County Council members?
I look forward to the hearings and meetings coming up in February.
FYI: Our group has a website: http://saveparleys.org
Tree Farm, LLC, the applicant, also now have a website: https://www.i80southquarry.com/
It looks like they named it: “I-80 South Quarry”
Thanks again for your service to the citizens of Salt Lake County.
Andrew Smith
On 01/30/2022 11:01 PM Aimee Winder Newton <anewton@slco.org> wrote:
I totally agree. Thanks for reaching out!

Aimee Winder Newton
Salt Lake County Council
On Jan 30, 2022, at 10:53 PM, ANDREW SMITH <awsmith4@comcast.net> wrote:
Dear Utah, Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County Officers,
Please find attached our comments letter to you all regarding the proposed quarry mine for Parleys
Canyon.
Thank you,
Andrew Smith

