From: "Aimee Winder Newton" <ANewton@slco.org>
To: "Luanne Schmidt" <luanne.e.schmidt82@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: Thank You for Your Vote for the Ordinance Change, From Generations of Our Family
Date: Wed, 13 Apr 2022 17:47:07 -0600
Importance: Normal
Attachments: IMG_4912.jpeg
Inline-Images: IMG_2660.jpeg; IMG_2621.jpeg; Other_-_Mt_Air_Sunset.jpeg; IMG_4232.jpeg;
IMG_4912(1).jpeg; IMG_4232(1).jpeg; Other_-_Mt_Air_Sunset(1).jpeg;
IMG_2660(1).jpeg; IMG_2621(1).jpeg

You are so welcome!
Aimee Winder Newton
Salt Lake County Council
On Apr 13, 2022, at 3:01 PM, Luanne Schmidt <luanne.e.schmidt82@gmail.com> wrote:

Dear Salt Lake County Council Members:
Thank you for supporting the ordinance change to protect our health, our precious mountains, and our
children’s and grandchildren’s future quality of life!!
Our family loves being in the mountains, especially the nearby Wasatch mountains, such a short drive from
home here on the Wasatch front. We are all so very grateful for the timeliness, civility, and careful processing
that went into your consideration of amending the FCOZ ordinance to protect the Wasatch mountains we love
from further mining developments. We recognize it takes great integrity and courage to stand on principles and
facts when others would sway you with emotion or threats. You are amazing.

We are so very grateful for your HEARING US!!! I have been in virtual attendance at many of DOGM’s
meetings, I have attended in person or virtually at three different city’s community council meetings, and I have
written letters and emails. With DOGM I have felt our voices were, at the least, inconvenient and annoying
when we spoke up (by correspondence or in person). By contrast, the County Council has welcomed our
voices, shared on behalf of our neighbors and children as well. I recall “slip sliding” down 2100 South to attend
in person the December meeting when the ordinance was originally proposed. Would you have the courage?
Did you know how to address our concerns? Do you see the alternate visions of the future we see at stake?
Worth it—my venture to sit in your chambers that snowy morning was well worth it.
And every time I am there in your chambers virtually or in person, as I was last week, I feel our Salt Lake
County Representatives are carefully weighing, gathering information, hearing feedback, and looking towards
immediate and future impacts. What a great wonder you are, in contrast with so much in government
performing with dysfunction and self interest.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
We are so grateful!!
Luanne and Tracy Schmidt
and families

