Andrew W. Smith
2385 E. Stringham Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109-1222
801-718-1509 Cell • awsmith4@comcast.net
March 31, 2022
Salt Lake County Council Members and
Mayor Jenny Wilson
RE:

Upcoming Meetings on the Proposed Amendments to Ordinances Related to Mineral Extraction and
Processing in Forestry and Recreation Zones.

Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
I appreciate all the work and consideration given by the Salt Lake County Council and the Mayor’s office in light
of all the current whirlwind of actions, motions and comments regarding the proposed gravel pit in lower Parleys
Canyon There is an important need for reviewing, updating and reforming mining ordinances and regulations as
they concern zoning in Forestry Recreation Zones (FRZ). Significant ordinance changes are needed to balance
public health, safety and environmental matters with the planning requirements of mining materials to support
Utah’s growth.
Salt Lake County’s planning for our future growth involves a significant and delicate balancing of many factors and
issues. In my opinion, the major focus must be on the health and safety of the public, and the protection of our air,
water, ecosystems and quality of life.
There is much opposition to a gravel pit in Parleys Canyon from citizens, communities, government agencies and
environmental groups. Many have voiced serious concerns about issues and negative impacts any mining operation
in our local Forestry Recreation Zones in the Wasatch Mountains will have on our lives, communities and the
environment.
I add my full support to the many citizens, community groups, local governments, and other County Commissions
all recommending the Salt Lake County Council make ordinance changes to remove mining and related processes
in Forestry Recreation Zones (FRZ) and to include Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zones (FCOZ). Some of these
other groups include: SLC Mountainous Planning District; SLC Planning Commission; Central Wasatch
Commission, Salt Lake City; City of Millcreek; Association of Community Councils Together (ACCT); Utah
Physicians for a Healthy Environment (UPHE); Save Our Canyons (SOC); and, the list is still growing.
I ask the Council to make the needed revisions of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of mineral
extraction and processing; mining; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in
connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest
Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone.
Thank you for your time and consideration.

Andrew W. Smith
801-718-1509 cell
awsmith4@comcast.net

cc

Brian Steed, Director of Department of Natural Resources
Mike Mower, Senior Advisor to Governor Spencer Cox

