From: Jordan Carroll <JCarroll@slco.org>
To: "Regional Transportation, Housing & Economic Development DL" <RTHED-DL@slco.org>
Subject: Regional Development Newsletter - Next Week's Event & New Staff
Date: Fri, 29 Apr 2022 09:31:16 -0600
Importance: Normal

Recap of April 2022

Regional Development
Monthly Newsletter

May 5 "Off the Menu" Event
Regional Development's "Off the Menu" event is starting up again! For those
who are new, these are monthly opportunities to get together as a whole office,
chat, eat, and maybe learn something!
This month will feature tamales to celebrate Cinco de Mayo and conversation
around phishing with the help of County IT.
Some might not know that Cinco de Mayo is not a celebration of Mexico's
independence. It marks the Mexican victory over the French at the Battle of
Puebla, which took place on May 5, 1862. It is still, however, an opportunity to
learn about the history, culture, food and legacy of the U.S.' neighbor -- things
that are very prevalent in our diverse fabric in Salt Lake County.
Off the Menu
When: Noon, Thursday, May 5
Where: Government Center Cafeteria (1st floor, south building)

In the Office

May Work Anniversaries in ORD
Thank you for all that you do!
Sara Hernandez - 4 years
Jennifer Jimenez - 3 years

Submit happenings and celebrations
Did you get recognition for something? Did something professional or personal
happen you want to share with the office? Or maybe you want to tip off something
great a fellow co-worker did?
Email Channing at cgibbs@slco.org

Welcomes & Goodbyes

Welcome, Saskia DeVries!
Regional Development is excited to officially welcome Saskia to the team,
though we know many of you have had the opportunity to work with her in the
past as part of the Office of Data & Innovation. In her new role, she's working
as ORD's Business Strategy Manager. Before the County, Saskia helped
other countries conduct census; ask her about collecting demographic data!
One thing you might not already know about Saskia is after college, she
bicycled across the entire U.S. with an organization called Bike & Build. They
biked 6 days a week and during days off worked with Habitat for Humanity.
When she's not focused on data, she loves watching MASH.

Welcome, Adrian West!
Adrian joined the Economic Development team as the Municipal Economic
Development Manager in March, where he helps develop and implement
economic develop strategies for the metro townships in Salt Lake County. A
large part of the role involves understanding the needs of small businesses and
local stakeholders to inform economic development decisions. He works
extensively in community engagement. In his free time, Adrian enjoys venturing

outdoors, reading books on business and management, and exercising. He
holds an MBA in Technology Commercialization from Westminster College and
a BS in Peace and Conflict Studies from the University of Utah.

Farewell, Robert Trujillo!
Thank you Robert for all of your work and help to keep Regional Development
running! After 16 years, Robert said farewell to ORD in April and moved to
serve in an IT role for the Clerk's Office. You can find him on the first floor of the
Government Center's south building, if you ever need a chat.

Newsworthy

Salt Lake County Council Approves More Than $30 Million in ARPA
Investments in Affordable Housing, Water Conservation, Workforce
Development
Salt Lake County Council approved three major initiatives totaling $32.1 million
in American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) funds to increase affordable housing
inventory, prioritize water conservation, and innovate workforce development.
The $20 million infusion into the County’s Housing Trust Fund aims to fund the
construction and preservation of 1,200 units near food, jobs, broadband,
transportation, schools, and childcare resources.
Read about the Housing Trust Fund, Water Conservation, and WISE programs.

Salt Lake County Discusses
Legislative Policy, Great Salt Lake
During Water Summit in April
Watch recaps of the presentations
and tune in for the final Water
Summit session on May 3, where
Michael Shea will present a new
water savings proposal.
Share with your friends and
neighbors: Wait to water until after
May 15.

Salt Lake County Council Approves Mining and Mineral Extraction
Ordinance Amendment
After going before community councils, the planning commissions, and two
hearings before the County Council, the County Council approved this
amendment on April 6.
“Our canyons provide clean drinking water and mining impacts water quality
and harms our air," Mayor Wilson said. "We owe it to our children and
grandchildren to preserve our canyons for both recreation enjoyment and the
preservation of health.”
Read more from the Salt Lake Tribune.

Dates to note in May
End of Ramadan — May 1
Small Business Week — May 2-6
Water Summit - Final Week — May 3
Cinco de Mayo — May 5
Economic Development Week — May 9-13
West General Plan Public Hearing #1 — May
10
West General Plan Public Hearing #2 — May
17
Upper Mill Creek Canyon Road Improvements
Project Open House #2 — May 19
Memorial Day — May 30
Bike Month — May

April 2022's Most Popular Tweet

April 2022's Most Popular Instagram Post

April 2022's Most Viewed LinkedIn Post

April 2022's Most Viewed Facebook Post

Follow your department and fellow co-workers' hard work that's being shared
with the community by following or liking ORD.
Regional Development on Twitter
Regional Development on Instagram
Regional Development on LinkedIn
Regional Development on Facebook

F

T

Li

W

Copyright © 2022 Salt Lake County Regional Development, All rights reserved.
You are receiving this email because you opted in for updates from Salt Lake County Regional
Development.
Our mailing address is:
Salt Lake County Regional Development
2001 South State Street
Salt Lake City, UT 84114
Add us to your address book

Want to change how you receive these emails?
You can update your preferences or unsubscribe from this list.
Email Marketing
Powered by Mailchimp

