From: Gregory Baptist <GBaptist@msd.utah.gov>
To: Dave Carrier <carrier.dave@gmail.com>
Cc: Brian Hartsell <BHartsell@msd.utah.gov>, Maridene Alexander
<MaAlexander@msd.utah.gov>, Lupita McClenning <LMcClenning@msd.utah.gov>, Melissa
Anderson <MAnderson@msd.utah.gov>
Subject: New quarry
Date: Wed, 01 Dec 2021 11:03:30 -0700
Importance: Normal

Dave,
Regarding the Tree Farm LLC Silver Mine Notice of Intent that was submitted to the Department of Natural Resources’
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining, this state agency is responsible for issuing the permit to the applicant for any mining
activity. Meanwhile, the applicant would also have to apply for a conditional use permit (CUP) to conduct mining activities
within the FR Zone where this property is located. The CUP application would be submitted to the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District (MSD) and follow the below prescribed process:
Pre-Application: Prior to submitting the land use application to the MSD, a pre-application meeting will be required
per Salt Lake County Code 19.84.040(c)(2). The meeting would include multiple agencies who would be reviewing
the application including MSD Planning and Development, SLC Watershed, SLCo Health Department, SLCo Water
Quality, Unified Fire Authority, SLCo Engineering, etc.
Land Use Permit: Salt Lake County Code provides for “Mineral Extraction and Processing” in the FR zone through the
Conditional Use Permit process (per 19.12.030(J)). The CUP process will follow the standards of approval outlined in
19.84.060. The proposal must also comply with all applicable provisions of the "Foothills and Canyons Overlay
Zone," and the "Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards."
Decision-making Authority: The Conditional Use Permit application is determined by the Mountainous Planning
Commission at a public meeting.
Appeal: Any decision by the Planning Commission may be appealed to the Hearings Officer in accordance with
19.84.080.
At this point, no land use application has been submitted to the MSD by Tree Farm LLC. In the meantime, as the state
reviews and considers the permit, the public may provide comment to oilgasmining@utah.gov .
Thank you,
Gregory M Baptist
385-468-6681

From: Dave Carrier <carrier.dave@gmail.com>
Sent: Tuesday, November 30, 2021 1:47 PM
To: Gregory Baptist <GBaptist@msd.utah.gov>
Subject: New quarry
Hi Greg,
Thanks for the quick conversation this morning.
Meeting online would work well for me. This Friday, I am available from 10:00 to 12:00, 1:00 to 2:30, and after 3:30. Next
week, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday are largely open for me.

Best,
Dave

