From: "ANewton@slco.org" <ANewton@slco.org>
To: Michelle Todd <michelletodd4@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: Parleys Canyon Limestone Quarry
Date: Sun, 20 Mar 2022 10:21:52 -0600
Importance: Normal

You are totally doing the right thing to email. It’s always good for us to hear what our constituents want, so thank
you so much for reaching out!
Have you emailed all nine county council members? That would be my only suggestion is to email and thank
them for taking swift action to prevent this mine and let them know of your concerns. The process has begun, but
we still need to vote to finalize the ordinance change as it has to sit for a period of time. (I believe 60 days.)
As a side note, I totally know who you are! Brenda and Cary love their amazing neighbors! And I remember that
you are a realtor.
Thanks again!
Aimee
Aimee Winder Newton
Salt Lake County Council
On Mar 20, 2022, at 8:32 AM, Michelle Todd <michelletodd4@gmail.com> wrote:

Thank you Aimee. I did not know you adjusted the ordinance. That is swift action
which I certainly appreciate. Your prompt response is appreciated! We must be on the
same schedule! I live across from Brenda and Cary Davis!
Please advise me as to who else I can contact. I keep telling everyone I hear complain
about issues in our state to email officials. It takes 2 minutes. I wish more people
would take the time to make their wishes known instead of just complaining. I think
citizens have a hard time hearing around the rhetoric to know what would be the best
course of action.
Thank you for your service,
Michelle
On Sun, Mar 20, 2022 at 8:20 AM Aimee Winder Newton <ANewton@slco.org> wrote:
Michelle,
Thanks for reaching out! Our council has been unanimously opposed to this since the beginning and we acted
swiftly to adjust the ordinance once we got wind of the project. I’m not sure what you mean by, “I am
astonished that it has gotten this far and the council did not shut it down earlier.”
Thanks again for taking the time to reach out! It’s great to hear from you!

Aimee
Aimee Winder Newton
Salt Lake County Council
> On Mar 20, 2022, at 8:05 AM, Michelle Todd <michelletodd4@gmail.com> wrote:
>
> ﻿Ms. Newton,
>
> I am opposed to the limestone mine proposed in Parleys Canyon. Frankly I am astonished that it has gotten
this far and the council did not shut it down earlier.
>
> When will we learn to value nature over money? This state and especially Salt Lake and Utah County,
seem to value development and developers who they know over the sacred responsibility of protecting what
makes the Wasatch front.
>
> There is a point where we need to say Enough!! We are on a very slippery slope of a land grab in this state
which will change the landscape forever.
>
> PLEASE oppose this project!! History will reflect the council in light of protecting values or caving in to
developers for money. In hindsight it will be known to be a grave error in judgement if approved.
>
> Please protect your citizens and land.
>
> Sincerely,
> Michelle Todd
>
> Sent from my iPhone
--

Michelle Todd

Associate Broker
"Experience the Difference"
Exit Realty Plus
801-635-4406
Oh, By the Way... If you come across someone who is interested in buying or selling a home, please text, call or
email me with their name and phone number! I am never too busy for any of your referrals!

www.perfecthomesutah.com
Check out our Reviews on Zillow.com

IMPORTANT NOTICE: Never trust wiring instructions sent via email. Cyber criminals are hacking email accounts and sending emails with
fake wiring instructions. These emails are convincing and sophisticated. Always independently confirm wiring instructions in person or via
a telephone call to a trusted and verified phone number. Never wire money without double-checking that the wiring instructions are
correct.

