Haley Sousa (No. 14333)
Charles A. Lyons (No. 17583)
Assistant Attorneys General
Sean D. Reyes (No. 7969)
Utah Attorney General
1594 W. North Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84116
Tel: (801) 538-7227
Attorneys for Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
BEFORE THE BOARD OF OIL, GAS AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
STATE OF UTAH
In the matter of the Request for Agency Action of
TREE FARM, LLC for a declaratory ruling
regarding (1) the completeness of Tree Farm’s
NOI-SMO S/035/0053; and (2) the sufficiency of
Tree Farm’s proposed reclamation surety.

DIVISION’S RESPONSE IN
OPPOSITION TO PETITIONER’S
REQUEST FOR AGENCY ACTION
Docket No. 2022-002
Cause No. S/035/0053

The Division of Oil, Gas and Mining (“Division”) respectfully submits this Response in
Opposition to Tree Farm, LLC’s (“Petitioner”) Request for Agency Action (“RAA”). The
Division respectfully requests the Board of Oil, Gas and Mining (“Board”) deny Petitioner’s
RAA for a declaratory ruling because: 1) Petitioner seeks to circumvent the purpose of the Utah
Mined Land Reclamation Act (the “Act”); 2) the site is subject to a pending Notice of Intention
to Conduct Large Mining Operations (“Large Mine NOI”) and mining operations may not be
double permitted both under a Large Mine NOI and a Notice of Intention to Conduct Small
Mining Operations (“Small Mine NOI”); 3) the Division is necessarily authorized to approve or
deny Small Mine NOIs; and 4) Petitioner has not submitted a complete Small Mine NOI and its
proposed reclamation surety is insufficient. The Division requests the Board affirm the
Division’s decision to deny the Small Mine NOI.

1

I.

Background and Procedural History
On November 12, 2021, Petitioner submitted both a Small Mine NOI (Petitioner’s

Exhibit A) and a Large Mine NOI (Division’s Exhibit 1) simultaneously. The Division
immediately began processing both applications and on November 18, 2021 the Division
provided a letter to Petitioner identifying several deficiencies in the Small Mine NOI
(“Deficiency Letter”). See Petitioner’s Exhibit C. The Division identified the same deficiencies
and many others while reviewing Petitioner’s Large Mine NOI. 1 Because both NOIs contained
similar or identical deficiencies, and because Petitioner’s intent to commence large mining
operations is clear, the Division determined it should deny the Small Mine NOI and instead focus
its attention on the Large Mine NOI in the interest of administrative efficiency and in furtherance
of the Act’s purposes. Therefore, the Division issued a denial of the Small Mine NOI on
December 7, 2021. See Petitioner’s Exhibit E. Shortly thereafter, Petitioner filed this RAA.
II.

Petitioner Seeks to Circumvent Public Participation Requirements in the Act
While the process for review of Small Mine NOIs and Large Mine NOIs is substantially

similar, there are additional requirements for Large Mine NOIs mandated in the Act.
Specifically, Large Mine NOIs are subject to a public comment component absent from the
Small Mine NOI review process. Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-13(6)(b). By submitting a Large Mine
NOI on the same day as a Small Mine NOI, Petitioner signaled clear intent to pursue large
mining operations. Petitioner is effectively asking the Division to allow it to circumvent the
public process required by the Act and to allow it to immediately begin disturbing the land under
the Small Mine NOI, despite the possibility that Petitioner may not ultimately be allowed to mine

The Division completed its first review of the Large Mine NOI on December 15, 2021, identifying 94 deficiencies,
available at https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/M0350054/2021/Outgoing/12152021.pdf

1

2

under a Large Mine NOI. 2 It appears the area sought to be permitted under the Small Mine NOI
will primarily be used for facilities rather than active mining. If the Division issues a Small
Mine NOI and allows Petitioner to disturb ground, but Petitioner is later unable to mine under a
Large Mine NOI, the Division would be left overseeing reclamation of an area never actually
subject to mining, in conflict with the intent of the Act.
Inter-agency coordination is required by the Act regardless of whether an operator is
seeking a Small Mine NOI or a Large Mine NOI. Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-22. The Division has
identified several federal, state and local stakeholders that either will be required to issue permits
to Petitioner or who may wish to engage in the public comment period. 3 Indeed, the Division
has already been contacted by officials with the Department of Environmental Quality to engage
in pre-design meetings as part of the inter-agency coordination requirements.
In the interest of administrative efficiency and the desire not to duplicate efforts of
multiple regulatory entities, the Division determined it should focus its efforts entirely on the
Large Mine NOI, allowing for full public participation and inter-agency coordination prior to any
land disturbance, as required by the Act. Proceeding with the Small Mine NOI prior to
completing the review process for the Large Mine NOI would circumvent the legislature’s
requirement for public participation in the Large Mine NOI process.
III.

Double Permitting of Sites is Not Authorized
The Division has historically and consistently refused to double permit sites, whether it is

two operators requesting distinct permits for a single site or whether it is a single operator

Petitioner will need several permits in order to mine under the Large Mine NOI, including but not limited to, water
discharge permits, a fugitive dust permit, a storage tank permit, a conditional use permit, possibly a takings permit,
among others. The denial of any one of these permits would preclude Petitioner from mining.
3
Specifically, the Division identified at least three divisions within the Department of Environmental Quality, Salt
Lake County, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, MSHA, and UDOT at the very least. There may be
others that the Division has not identified.
2

3

requesting two permits for a single site. This policy is necessary to meet the purpose of the Act
to ensure that all mining in the state results in “reclamation of the land affected.” Utah Code
Ann. § 40-8-3. The Act defines “reclamation” as “actions performed during or after mining
operations to shape, stabilize, revegetate, or treat the land affected in order to achieve a safe,
stable, ecological condition and use which will be consistent with local environmental
conditions.” Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-4(28). If a parcel is subject to multiple permits, it
unnecessarily complicates determining appropriate bonding amounts for the affected area within
each permit and precludes the Division from releasing surety to an operator who has ceased
mining if the land affected is covered under a different active permit.
The Act provides the Board with authority to revoke a permit and require mining
operations within the permit area to cease. Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-16. However, if a permit area
is subject to more than one permit, it is impossible to require operations to cease on one permit
without ordering cessation on another permit that may be in full compliance with the Act –
something the Act does not authorize the Division to do. As such, the Division has always
interpreted the Act as allowing for a single permit for a single site. Allowing a site to be subject
to multiple permits frustrates the purpose of the Act and makes administration of the Act likely
impossible. Because Petitioner’s intent to engage in large mining operations is clear, the
Division should only process the Large Mine NOI.
IV.

The Division Has the Authority to Refuse Approval of Small Mine NOIs
Petitioner states the Division does not have the authority to deny a Small Mine NOI.

Instead, Petitioner claims the Division only has authority to approve the form and amount of the
surety. While the Division concedes that the statutory references relied on by Petitioner do
suggest that the Division doesn’t have authority to deny a Small Mine NOI, the Division

4

nonetheless rejects this interpretation and requests the Board do the same. Reading the statute as
Petitioner suggests would lead to the absurd result that the Division does not have any
jurisdiction to regulate small mines in the state of Utah. Yet legislative intent clearly
demonstrates the legislature expects the Division to enforce the Act on small mine operations.
a. Absurdity Doctrine
It is commonly noted that if the meaning of a statute can be determined by its plain
language, then no other statutory interpretive tools are necessary. LPI Servs. V. McGee, 215
P.3d 135, 139 (Utah 2009). However, the Utah Supreme Court has noted if the plain language
leads to absurd results, it is permissible to “read a statute contrary to its plain meaning.” Bagley
v. Bagley, 387 P.3d 1000, 1010 (Utah 2016). While this absurdity doctrine is a “narrow and
exacting standard,” it is appropriate here because “the operation of the plain language is so
overwhelmingly absurd that no rational legislator could have intended the statute to operate in
such a manner.” Id.
The absurdity doctrine “reforms unambiguous statutory language where that language
would lead to an absurd result.” 4 Id. at 1009. When unambiguous language leads to an absurd
result, the doctrine instructs to “first consult the express purpose of the statute or, absent a
statement of statutory purpose, legislative history to ensure that an absurd result was not intended
by the legislature before we apply the doctrine to reform a statute.” Id. at 1010.
In Garfield County v. United States, the Utah Supreme Court employed the absurdity
doctrine to “reform” a statute to allow the text to be interpreted as a statute of limitation even
though the plain language of the statute designated a statute of repose. Garfield, 424 P.3d 46

There are actually two interpretive tools related to absurdity that are often confused. The absurd consequences
canon resolves ambiguity by choosing an interpretation that avoids an absurd result. This is different than the
absurdity doctrine, which is applied where unambiguous statutory language leads to an absurd result.

4

5

(Utah 2017). The Court did so because if the plain language statute of repose was applied in
R.S. 2477 cases, it would lead to the absurd result that “cut off the State’s ability to protect rights
of way that accrued since 1866-despite the fact that no mechanism to defend such property
interests had been created judicially or legislatively until 1972.” Id. at 58. The Utah Supreme
Court noted that if the plain language were instead reformed to be interpreted as a statute of
limitation, then the State would be able to defend its property interests and proceed with its
cases.
b. Legislative Intent
The express purpose of the Act clearly shows legislative intent to allow the Division to
enforce the Act on small mine operations. Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-3 states “the purpose of this
act is to provide that . . . all mining in the state shall include plans for reclamation of the land”
(emphasis added). Additionally, the “objectives” of the act are to 1) return the land to a stable
condition capable of supporting future use; 2) minimize on and off-site environmental
degradation; and 3) to minimize or prevent harm to the public safety or welfare. See Utah Code
Ann. § 40-8-12. In order to ensure all mines are reclaimed and that all mining activity is
conducted so as to reduce or prevent harm to the public, it is necessary for the Division to have
inspection and enforcement authority over all mines in the state of Utah, including small mines.
If the Board adopts the interpretation put forward by Petitioner, it leads to the absurd
result that the Board and Division have little or no jurisdiction over small mines. Many statutory
provisions contained in the Act are only applicable only to “approved” NOIs and if the Division
doesn’t have the ability to “approve” Small Mine NOIs, then the Division and the Board lack
enforcement jurisdiction with respect to small mines.

6

Specifically, Petitioner’s interpretation means the Division lacks the authority to enter a
small mine to inspect it (Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-17(2)); 5 the Board and Division lack the
authority to require small mine operators to post bond (Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-14(1)(a) 6 and §
10-8-16(2)(b)); 7 the Board lacks the authority to require small mine operators to reclaim sites
they may have either abandoned or expanded beyond the original NOI (Utah Code Ann. § 40-816(2)(a), (c)); 8 the Board or Division lack the authority to require small mine operators to amend
or revise their NOI in the event their mining operations change over time, even if the small mine
operator increases its footprint from one acre to twenty (Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-18(1)(a)); 9 the
Division lacks the authority to require notification of commencement of operations or annual
reporting (Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-15). 10
Petitioner’s interpretation also has negative consequences for small mine operators
because Petitioner’s interpretation means that small mine operators don’t have the ability to
transfer their permits to other small mine operators without first fully reclaiming the site (Utah

“As a condition of consideration and approval of a notice of intention, each applicant or operator . . . shall permit
members of the board, the division . . . at all reasonable times, to enter the affected land . . . to make inspections.”
6
“After receiving notification that a notice of intention for mining operations has been approved, but prior to
commencement of those operations, the operator shall provide surety to the division.”
7
“Approval may be withdrawn in the event that the operator fails to provide and maintain surety as may be required
under this chapter.”
8
“(a) Approval may be withdrawn in the event that the operator substantially fails to perform reclamation or
conduct mining operations so that the approved reclamation plan can be accomplished” and “(c) Approval may be
withdrawn in the event that mining operations are continuously shut down.”
9
“Since mining operations and related reclamation plans may need to be revised to accommodate changing
conditions or new technology, an operator conducting mining operations under an approved notice of intention
shall submit to the division a notice of intention when revising mining operations.”
10
“(1) Within 30 days after commencement of mining operations under an approved notice of intention, the
operator shall give notice of such commencement to the division. (2) At the end of each calendar year, unless
waived by the division, each operator conducting mining operations under an approved notice of intention shall file
an operations and progress report with the division on a form prescribed in the rules promulgated by the board.”
5

7

Code Ann. § 40-8-19). 11 Similarly, under Petitioner’s interpretation, small mine operators are
not entitled to a permit that is valid for the life of the mine (Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-16(1)). 12
Because each of the statutory provisions above are only applicable to “approved” NOIs,
e.g. the Board may withdraw “approval” of an NOI when the operator fails to maintain adequate
surety, the inability of the Division to “approve” Small Mine NOIs leads to the absurd result that
the Division and the Board effectively lack substantial jurisdiction with respect to small mines.
This interpretation also erodes the rights of small mine operators because only “approved” NOIs
may be transferred, and the Division is only required to issue permits for the life of the mine to
“approved” NOIs. Petitioner’s interpretation not only harms the Division’s administration of the
Act, but also harms the rights of small mine operators.
c. Legislative History
Although the statutory purpose and objectives are clear that the Division must have full
authority over small mines, there is also enlightening legislative history relevant to this case.
The Act was first passed in 1975. At that time, the statute did not differentiate between small
and large mines, although it did include an exemption for some mining operations. 13 The
distinction between large and small mines was not created until an amendment in 1986, which
added a definition for small mines and eliminated the exemption for some mining operations
created under the 1975 Act. Then in 1987, the legislature again amended the statute to include
the language Petitioner relies upon wherein it seemingly exempts small mine operators from
receiving approval of their NOIs. If the intent of the legislature was to exempt small mines from

“Whenever an operator succeeds to the interest of another operator who holds an approved notice of intention or
revision covering a mining operation, by sale, assignment, lease, or other means, the division may release the first
operator from his responsibilities under his approved notice of intention.”
12
“An approved notice of intention or approved revision of it remains valid for the life of the mining operation.”
13
The threshold to be exempt from compliance with the Mined Land Reclamation Act was production of less than
500 tons of material per year or less than two acres was used in a 12 consecutive month period.
11

8

regulation, it would have done so in 1986 and 1987. Additionally, there have been several
amendments since, including two in 2020 that altered the definition of “small mining operation.”
The legislature could have again exempted small mines from all regulation in 2020 had they
honestly intended small mines to be exempted from regulation.
d. Reformed Language Conforms with Legislative Intent and Legislative History
Provisions in the Act, when read together, produce results consistent with legislative
intent to regulate small mines that do not lead to absurd results. Specifically, the Division has
authority to deny a Small Mine NOI so long as the operator is given an opportunity for a hearing
with the Board, which is happening here. Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-16 states:
Approval of a notice of intention may not be refused, withheld, nor withdrawn by the
division until the operator, who holds or has applied for such approval, has had an
opportunity to request a hearing before the board, present evidence, cross-examine, and
participate fully in the proceedings. Based on the record of the hearing, the board will
issue an order concerning the refusal, withholding, or withdrawal of the notice of
intention. If no hearing is requested, the division may refuse, withhold, or withdraw
approval of a notice of intention.
(Emphasis added). This interpretation is supported by Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-13(4)(b) which
states that upon reviewing a Small Mine NOI, the Division will notify the operator of any
objections to the notice and either: 1) allow the operator to cure the objections; or 2) allow the
operator to “obtain a ruling relative to the objections from the board.”
The Board is able to meet the intent of the legislature without prejudicing small mine
operators and without leading to the absurd result that the Division and Board lack jurisdiction
over small mines by reading the Act to allow the Division to deny a Small Mine NOI so long as
the operator is afforded an opportunity for a hearing with the Board. This is the only
interpretation that allows the Division to carry on with its statutory enforcement authority while
still protecting the rights of small mine operators.

9

V.

Petitioner’s Small Mine NOI is Incomplete
Petitioner is not entitled to a declaratory ruling that its Small Mine NOI is complete

because the Division’s initial review of the Small Mine NOI indicated it was incomplete.
Petitioner posits that because the Division’s Deficiency Letter identified some deficiencies, and
because Petitioner responded to those deficiencies, that it must therefore have a complete Small
Mine NOI. However, Petitioner fails to recognize that the review process for both Small Mine
NOIs and Large Mine NOIs is iterative, i.e. the Division and applicant may have several backand-forth communications prior to arriving at a complete NOI.
In this instance, the Division identified new deficiencies based on Petitioner’s response to
the Deficiency Letter. Specifically, Petitioner submitted deficient x-ray fluorescence (“XRF”)
data and must also submit a map showing the location of each XRF data point, the units of each
element, the latest certificate of calibration, and the methodology used in data collection. Also,
Petitioner made commitments in its November 24, 2021 letter that need to be incorporated into
the Small Mine NOI. See Petitioner’s Exhibit C. The Division also identified that Petitioner
submitted bond unit costs using 2019 figures that must be updated to the current year, a
deficiency that was not included in the Division’s Deficiency Letter, but that nonetheless must be
remedied prior to a determination that Petitioner’s Small Mine NOI is complete.
There may be other deficiencies not yet identified. The deficiencies described above
were identified prior to the Division ceasing review of the Small Mine NOI and the Division’s
review of the Small Mine NOI is unfinished. Regardless, the Division’s initial review of
Petitioner’s Small Mine NOI indicated it is incomplete. Therefore, the Petitioner is not entitled
to a declaratory ruling that it submitted a complete Small Mine NOI. If the Board agrees with

10

Petitioner that a Small Mine NOI is appropriate in this instance, Petitioner’s Small Mine NOI
must be remanded to the Division for further review.
VI.

Conclusion
The Division respectfully requests the Board uphold the Division’s decision to deny

Petitioner’s Small Mine NOI. First, in submitting its Small Mine NOI at the same time as its
Large Mine NOI, Petitioner is seeking to circumvent the purpose and intent of the Act. Second,
the Division is not authorized to double permit a site and Petitioner has clearly shown its
intention to pursue large mining operations. Therefore, the Division should only issue a single
Large Mine NOI. Third, the Division necessarily has the authority to approve or deny a Small
Mine NOI. Otherwise, the Division would lack most, if not all, jurisdiction over small mines in
the state. Finally, Petitioner has failed to submit a complete Small Mine NOI and has not
demonstrated the sufficiency of its reclamation surety. In the event the Board agrees with
Petitioner that a Small Mine NOI is appropriate in this instance, Petitioner’s Small Mine NOI
must be remanded to the Division for further review.
Respectfully submitted this 10th day of January, 2022.
UTAH OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
__________________________________
Haley Sousa
Charles A. Lyons
Assistant Attorneys General
1594 West North Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, Utah 84116-3154
Tel: (801) 538-7227
Email: hsousa@agutah.gov
calyons@agutah.gov
Attorneys for the Division of Oil, Gas and Mining

11

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that, on this 10th day of January, 2022, I caused a true and correct copy of the
foregoing Division’s Response In Opposition To Petitioner’s Request For Agency Action
to be sent to the following:
By email:
Michael E. Begley
Assistant Attorney General representing the
Board of Oil, Gas and Mining
mbegley@agutah.gov

Scott Baird
Salt Lake County, Director of Public Works
scottbaird@slco.org

Stephen E.W. Hale
Daniel A. Jensen
Justin P. Matkin
Kassidy J. Wallin
Attorney’s representing Tree Farm, LLC
shale@parrbrown.com
djensen@parrbrown.com
jmatkin@parrbrown.com
kwallin@parrbrown.com

Lupita McClenning, Director of Planning and
Development
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Greg Baptist, Stormwater Inspection
Supervisor
lmcclenning@msd.utah.gov
gbaptist@msd.utah.gov

Rebecca Hotze
Roger Kesterson
United States Forest Service
rebecca.hotze@usda.gov
roger.kesterson@usda.gov

Greg Sheehan
Bureau of Land Management
blm_ut_so_public_room@blm.gov

Rulon Harper
c/o Amber Harper
amber@harpercompaniesinc.com
By mail:
Richards Family Partnership c/o Susan Trapp
2313 E. Creek Rd.
Cottonwood Hts, UT 84093 (address per
Petitioner’s Certificate of Service)

__________________________________
12

Division’s Exhibit 1

13

