FILED
JANUARY 10 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING
Julie Carter <juliecarter@utah.gov>

Fwd: Comments Regarding Tree Farm Mine
1 message
OilGasMining NR <oilgasmining@utah.gov>
To: Julie Carter <juliecarter@utah.gov>

Tue, Jan 11, 2022 at 7:21 AM

For you.
HB
---------- Forwarded message --------From: Joan Entwistle <joan.entwistle@gmail.com>
Date: Mon, Jan 10, 2022 at 6:56 PM
Subject: Comments Regarding Tree Farm Mine
To: <oilgasmining@utah.gov>
Dear Oil and Gas Mining Board,
I am writing to urge you to deny approval of the Tree Farm Mine in Parleys Canyon. There are many
reasons to deny this project.
1. Air pollution is a serious health problem for residents of Northern Utah, now exacerbated by
wildfires and dust from Great Salt Lake. The dust from this mine and the pollution from the trucks will
impact communities on both sides of the Wasatch mountains, as air in Parleys Canyon is blown by
westerly winds over the pass. This dust may reduce the snowpack and cost Utah millions in revenue
due to a shortened ski season.
2. Water pollution - runoff from the mine will travel into streams that support wildlife and increase
pollution of the Great Salt Lake.
3. Dangerous increase in truck traffic - I-80 is already dangerous due to the trucks traveling at
various speeds with not enough lanes.
4. Impact to scenic values - the rock walls of the canyon are incredibly beautiful, only marred by the
existing mine. A mine that is 4 times the size of the existing mine will destroy the beauty of the
canyon. The mine will be within a mile of peaks that are climbed by thousands of Utah residents
every year and severely degrade the views from these peaks.
5. Fire risk - increased truck traffic increases the risk of fires in the canyon, endangering residents on
both ends of the canyon.
6. Earthquake risk - the size of the mine could trigger earthquakes on the active Wasatch fault. An
earthquake could cause a major disaster at this site with rockfall damaging I-80 and burying vehicles
travelling on I-80.
Thank you for your consideration of these concerns.
Joan Entwistle
6169 Snowview Dr.
Park City, UT

