Critical Minerals and Rare Earth Elements

Critical Minerals.
Products from the mining industry are integral to every Utahns’ lifestyle and standard of living
and mining supports the foundation of the nation’s economy. From the sand and gravel used to
build roads and lay foundations for homes and buildings, to coal and uranium used to generate
more than half of the nation’s electricity, to the copper wire that connects billions of computers
to a global social and commercial network, this country’s economy and way of life depend on
the vital resources provided by mining. Because of its importance to society, mineral resource
development in Utah is supported by state policy.
The Critical Mineral List (List) was first released by the U.S. Geologic Survey (USGS) in May
2018 and contained 35 critical minerals and rare earth elements (REEs). The basis for the
creation of the List was that, “The United States is heavily reliant on imports of certain mineral
commodities that are vital to the Nation's security and economic prosperity. This dependency of
the United States on foreign sources creates a strategic vulnerability for both its economy and
military to adverse foreign government action, natural disaster, and other events that can disrupt
supply of these key minerals.”1 Utah had known sources of 28 of the 35 critical minerals and
REEs2, produced eight critical minerals (helium, lithium, beryllium, magnesium metal, potash,
rhenium, platinum, and palladium), and hosted established resources of six more critical
minerals (fluorspar, vanadium, uranium, aluminum, and indium).
On February 24, 2022, the USGS published the 2022 Critical Mineral List3 which removed
helium, uranium, potash, rhenium, and strontium, four of which can be mined in Utah and which
contribute significantly to the mining industry and the economics of local communities. Nickel
and zinc were added to the 2022 List and Utah has historically been the ninth largest zinc
producer domestically.
Please refer to the Critical Minerals of Utah report which contains a description of each critical
mineral produced in Utah as well as known and hypothetical sources.4
Rare Earth Elements (REE).
Utah’s geology is not conducive to the formation of significant REE deposits, as confirmed by
historical exploration. Minor modern exploration has re-evaluated previously deprioritized
targets (e.g., Lake Bonneville beach gravels in Juab County); however, it is unlikely that Utah
has the potential to become a primary REE producer. Byproduct REE production from existing
mine tailings, such as the beryllium tailings at Spor Mountain or coal ash stockpiled at coal-fired
power plants, may be possible and is the subject of current research.

1 https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2018-05-18/pdf/2018-10667.pdf
2 https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-129.pdf
3 https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2022-02-24/pdf/2022-04027.pdf
4 https://ugspub.nr.utah.gov/publications/circular/c-129.pdf

