From: Jodi Harker <harkerjodi@hotmail.com>
To: "ANewton@slco.org" <ANewton@slco.org>
Subject: SLCO Meeting Dec. 10, 2021 - Mineral Extraction Ordinance
Date: Thu, 09 Dec 2021 20:57:13 -0700
Importance: Normal

Hello. I write to you because I became aware this evening of a County Council meeting tomorrow at which the proposed
mine in Parley’s Canyon and mineral extraction ordinances will be discussed. As an adjacent property owner, I would like
to provide my input regarding this issue. I will assume because of this addenda item you are familiar with the NOI from
Tree Farm, LLC for the proposed Large Mining Operation to be located in Parley’s Canyon. This property is also directly
next to a canyon community called Mount Aire canyon. This historic canyon was founded in the 1800's by my great great
grandfather and has grown to be an extremely serene community of approximately 150 recreational cabins as well as
many full-time residences. I am the owner of a recreational cabin in Mount Aire canyon as well as I am a partial owner of
other Mount Aire property held by the Richards Family Partnership which abuts the Tree Farm, LLC proposed mining
land. This tranquil, residential community is our own little piece of heaven as it is secluded and peaceful. Our entire
community is quite frustrated that a project of this magnitude, which would create such destruction to the natural
landscape and wildlife as well as impact the Mount Aire community so greatly, is being considered in Parley’s Canyon.
I am extremely concerned about how the proposed Large Mining Operation or any other destructive use of the land will
impact our residential community in the canyon as well as how it will impact the entire Wasatch Front. I am concerned
the noise pollution to our serene community, the dust pollution to Mount Aire Canyon as well as the Millcreek and
Canyon Rim areas at the mouth of Parley’s Canyon, the safety of Mount Aire canyon and its residents especially if there
will be blasting operations with the mining process, any impact to the Mount Aire drinking spring water and the water in
our beautiful creek which eventually flows to the Salt Lake valley, the impact to our water rights, the impact on both
Parley’s Canyon and Mount Aire Canyon wildlife, canyon ecology, as well as the economic impact of property values, and
destruction to the beautiful mountains in the area.
I am deeply concerned about the impact to my canyon home and to my family’s future ability to enjoy this serene canyon
as we have for generations. I am also very concerned for the possibility of air and water pollution to Salt Lake

County as well as the impact to recreation at Grandeur Peak.

As precedent, I concede there is currently a gravel mining operation on the North side of I-80 in Parley’s Canyon but,
according to the application for Large Mining Operations on the Tree Farm, LLC property on the South side of I-80, the
proposed Large Mining Operation would be vastly larger than the existing operation in Parley’s Canyon. As well, the mine
on the North side of Parley’s Canyon is not adjacent to any residential communities while the proposed mine is.
I implore you to vote to eliminate mineral extraction and processing related uses in Parley’s Canyon as well as in any other
forestry and recreation area within Salt Lake County.
I appreciate your time.
Regards,
Jodi Harker
801-554-1326
1815 Faunsdale Dr
Sandy, UT 84092
harkerjodi@hotmail.com

