FILED
JANUARY 10 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

Julie Carter <juliecarter@utah.gov>

DOGM Review of the Proposed Large Scale Mining Operation in
Parleys Canyon
Craig Wallentine <mountainstate10@gmail.com>
To: juliecarter@utah.gov

Mon, Jan 10, 2022 at 4:34 PM

Hi Julie,
My name is Craig Wallentine and our family has lived at the mouth of Parleys Canyon since the late
1950's. We all went to Eastwood Elementary, also at the mouth of Parleys Canyon. Many were the
days when my friends and I would walk to school feeling the canyon winds. Even today, you can see
the most recent generation of school children walking to school experiencing the same winds.
The trees in our neighborhood all have a tilt towards the valley due to the steady winds coming down
Parleys and from Grandeur. All the schools and churches around Parleys Gulch feel the same effect.
So you can imagine the shock when we heard just before Thanksgiving that a massive new quarry
was being proposed for Parleys. These days, when I drive up and down Parley's Canyon, I always
have the internal circulation turned on to avoid breathing the dust and particulate blowing from the
existing mine operation on the north side of Parleys. I have some photos if you are interested in
seeing how insufficient the dust suppression equipment is on the existing mine. The dusting is
especially bad when the trucks drive off the quarry property and onto Interstate 80. Sometimes at
night there is such a dust cloud in the Canyon that it looks like a dust storm with eerie lighting - not
something anyone would want to live by.
My request to the Department of Oil, Gas and Mining is to carefully review the large mine permit for
the proposed "Tree Farm" quarry operation with full awareness of the danger that the large operation
intended by the LLC will pose to the public, especially our school children. I feel that the simultaneous
filing of permits for both a small and large mining operation by the LLC is nonsensical at best and
unethical at worst. Clearly the LLC intends to proceed with a massive mining operation not a small
one. Please let me know how I can assist in your review in providing local input on the negative
impacts such an operation would have on our neighborhood schools and churches.
Thank you very much,
Craig Wallentine & the Wallentine Family
3627 Palisade Drive
Salt Lake City, UT
84109

