News Release
April 5, 2022
Contacts:

Katy Fleury
385-266-1600
communications@slco.org

Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson Urges Council to Prohibit Mining
in Canyons
A pending amendment in Salt Lake County Ordinance would prohibit mineral extraction and mining in
the Wasatch Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone

Salt Lake County, Utah—Ahead of Salt Lake County Council’s scheduled vote on a proposed amendment
that would prohibit mining and mineral extraction in the Wasatch Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
(FCOZ), Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson issued the following statement:
“I support prohibiting mining and mineral extraction in our Wasatch Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
(FCOZ) and urge the Salt Lake County Council to support today’s amendment.
Our Wasatch Canyons are vital to County residents’ quality of life, and we must fight to protect them.
Our canyons provide clean drinking water and mining impacts water quality and harms our air. We owe
it to our children and grandchildren to preserve our canyons for both recreation enjoyment and the
preservation of health.”
More than 1,000 public comments in favor of the amendment were submitted to the County ahead of
today’s vote. Public comment will begin at 4 p.m. and the vote will take place after.
###

News Release
April 5, 2022
Contacts:

Katy Fleury
385-266-1600
communications@slco.org

Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson Applauds Council’s Vote to
Prohibit Mining in Canyons

Today’s action amended existing ordinances to prohibit mineral extraction and mining within SLCo
Forestry and Recreation and Foothills and Canyons Overlay zones

Salt Lake County, UT – Salt Lake County Mayor Jenny Wilson applauds the Salt Lake County Council’s
vote to prohibit mining and mineral extraction in the Wasatch Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
(FCOZ), which aims to protect public health and safety and preserve the natural environment of the
Wasatch Front.

“Active measures are necessary to protect our canyon environment and preserve recreation
opportunities. Today, Salt Lake County took an active measure to prohibit future mining in the Wasatch
range,” said Mayor Wilson.
“The amendment supported by the County Council today seeks to eliminate mining and mineral
extraction in the Wasatch Canyons. Salt Lake County understands the need to preserve our Wasatch
range for residents to enjoy today and in the future. Further, mining impacts our water and air quality
which are vital to the health of our community,” continued Mayor Wilson.
More than 1,000 public comments in favor of the amendment were submitted to the County ahead of
today’s vote.
###

