From: "Aimee Winder Newton" <ANewton@slco.org>
To: "Rick Carter" <rickcarter1@comcast.net>
Subject: Re: Parleys Canyon Gravel Pit
Date: Wed, 06 Apr 2022 18:07:09 -0600
Importance: Normal

Thanks, Rick!
Aimee Winder Newton
Salt Lake County Council
On Apr 6, 2022, at 6:02 PM, Rick Carter <rickcarter1@comcast.net> wrote:
﻿A sincere thanks to each of you in support of the ordinance to protect the beauty and integrity of the Wasatch
mountains and canyons. There is no doubt we can protect what makes Salt Lake and Utah great and worldrenowned while providing the necessary resources for growth. It just takes a little thought.
Future generations thank you!
Rick Carter
Salt Lake City
Sent from my iPhone
On Mar 31, 2022, at 5:14 PM, Rick Carter <rickcarter1@comcast.net> wrote:
Dear Members of the Salt Lake County Council:
A gravel pit in upper Parleys Canyon? Really, are we serious? The northern entrance to the county has been destroyed
by a gravel pit. The southern entrance to the county has been destroyed by a gravel pit. The western entrance to the
county is nothing to get exited about due to decades of copper mining and industrial activities. And don’t get me
started on the continued gravel operations at the base of Big Cottonwood Canyon. Do we really need to destroy the
spectacular eastern entrance to the Valley? We already have a gravel operation in lower Parleys which gives us all
heartache as it continues to grow. My goodness, all of northern Utah sits on an ancient lakebed – there are hundreds, if
not thousands, of feet of gravel. Let’s be smart and find different ways and locations to extract gravel.
Thanks to the Council for the draft ordinance to protect our mountains and canyons from unwanted and destructive
gravel pit development. We’ve turned enough of the Wasatch into gravel pits. I encourage the County Council to adopt
this ordinance at your upcoming Tuesday meeting and protect the beauty of Parleys Canyon and the Salt Lake Valley.
Thank you in advance.
Rick Carter
3075 E Kennedy Drive, #202
Salt Lake City, Utah 84108

