From: "Aimee Winder Newton" <ANewton@slco.org>
To: "Richard Jirik" <RJirik@msn.com>
Subject: Re: Proposed changes to the FR and FCOZ to prohibit mining
Date: Tue, 05 Apr 2022 07:53:34 -0600
Importance: Normal

Thanks for reaching out, Richard! As your rep on the county council I support this change and will be voting in
the affirmative.
Aimee
Aimee Winder Newton
Salt Lake County Council
On Apr 4, 2022, at 11:49 PM, Richard Jirik <RJirik@msn.com> wrote:

Dear Council Member Newton, ​
Tomorrow, April 5th, the Salt Lake County Council will hold a public meeting on whether to
approve a Council-drafted ordinance that would make changes to the Forest Recreation
Zone (FR) and the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ). These zones currently
govern land use in the Wasatch Mountains within Salt Lake County. Amending the
existing ordinance would prohibit future mining and quarrying operations within these
planning zones, including the proposed limestone quarry in Parley's Canyon.
In December the Council voted unanimously to initiate an ordinance change to the
aforementioned planning zones. Subsequently, the Salt Lake County Planning
Commissions and Mountainous Planning Commission recommended the changes to
the FR and FCOZ that the Council had proposed be adopted. It is noteworthy that at
the public meetings held thus far, public consensus has been overwhelmingly in favor
of the proposed changes to the existing ordinance.
The limestone quarry operation proposed for Parley's Canyon, if permitted, will further
degrade the air quality in the Salt Lake Valley. Moreover, the proposed extent of the
area to be impacted ultimately by mining--some 600 acres-- would have a deleterious
impact on the water resources for which the Central Wasatch Mountains were
originally set aside as National Forest land. Finally, the proposed quarry is simply
incompatible with the recreational opportunities and solitude that the Tri-Canyon area
provides to the general public in Salt Lake County and proximity. The County Council,
on behalf of the public, must be vigilant in protecting the Wasatch from mining and
related processing activities.

In closing, I urge you to vote to amend the existing ordinance for the FR and FCOZ, so
as to prohibit future mineral extraction and related activities within the Wasatch
Mountains of Salt Lake County.
Respectfully,

Richard Jirik
2083 W Champagne Circle
Taylorsville, Utah 84129

