Leagueof UnincorporatedCommunityCouncils
PO BOX 900904, SANDY, UTAH, 84090-0904, 801-568-0613

FILED

•

MARCH 23 2022

BigCottonwoodCommunityCouncil

Date:

March 23, 2022

SECRETARY, BOARD OF
Dear Utah Board of Oil, Gas, and Mining,
OIL, GAS & MINING
4.001.a*

vol
. IN • III,
j

NIL JP -awn
MO MI
1

1441i~ Ausei
Community Council

At our board meeting last night the League of Unincorporated Community Councils (LUCC), we discussed the
"Proposed Parley's Canyon Mine," and the changes by the Petitioner for the mining operations permit. It looks
as though a Notice of Intent (NOI) for a Small Mining Operation is being considered once again and possibly, a
Notice of Intent (NOI) for a Large Mining Operation up Parleys Canyon, West of the Mount Aire area, in Salt
Lake County. Our boards discussion once again came to the same conclusions for our recommendations to the
Utah State Board of Oil, Gas, and Mining.
As a organization that represents the opinions of the surrounding property owners and/or stake holders, of
this area. We believe that mining this area poses to many risks and damage to the health, safety, and
environment of the eco system, its wildlife, and surrounding water systems for this area.
Therefore, it is the position of the League of Unincorporated Community Councils (LUCC) to recommend that
these permit(s), "NOI for a Small Mining Operation Permit" and/or "NOI for a Large Mining Operation Permit,"
be DENIED. Our decision is based on the overwhelming outcry of concerns by our community residents and
stakeholders that live or own property near, and/or around this area in question. The property owner's, have
asked LUCC, a 501c-4 non-profit organization that, "Exercises, promotes andprotects the privileges and
interests of the residents ofSLCo," as a recommending body for the Unincorporated areas to local, State, and
Federal governments, to support their position in denying the NOI permits for this area.
Parleys Canyon: Parleys Canyon, with its scenic beauty and majestic features, serves as one of Salt Lake
County, Summit County, and Salt Lake City's most precious gems. Parleys Canyon serves as a gateway for our
visitors to the capital city and our famous Olympic facilities, local ski resorts, and Park City.

Willow
Canyon
Community

Health and Safety:
Residents and property owners living or staying near and/or around the proposed area of mining, have
concerns that they will be subject to toxic materials and waste, as a result of the proposed mining activities.
Environmental Damage: We believe that mining this area will pose too many risks and damage to the
surrounding environment, eco system, its wildlife, and water systems for this area. Residents and property
owners in the unincorporated areas surrounding this mine have communicated their concerns for their
watershed. The watershed "zone" for this proposed area of mining is also of concern, especially since the State
of Utah has been in such a drastic drought situation that will most likely get worse with increased populations.
We believe that this is not an acceptable mining location for any of our unincorporated citizens residing in or
owning property around, the Mount Aire area, in Salt Lake County. Please do not allow or permit this mining
operation to move forward.
Si
Ron Faerber, Chairman
League of Unincorporated Community Coun s
Mayor Jenny Wilson
Salt Lake County Government Center
2001 So. State St., Suite #N-2100
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
Cc: Salt Lake County Council

