Briefing Memorandum
To: Mayor Jenny Wilson, Catherine Kanter
From: Michael Shea
CC: Dina Blaes and Lisa Hartman
Subject: Wasatch Limestone Mine Proposal
Date: November 23rd, 2021

Jennifer Wilson
Mayor
Erin Litvack
Deputy Mayor
Chief Administrative Officer
Darrin Casper
Deputy Mayor
Chief Financial Officer
Catherine Kanter
Deputy Mayor
Chief Regional Officer

Summary
Tree Farm LLC is proposing two different limestone mines in Parleys Canyon. One is a
smaller 20-acre site1 and the other is a much larger a 634 acre2 limestone quarry located
adjacent to 1-80 next to Mount Aire and Mill Creek Canyon. The proposal was submitted to
the State of Utah’s Division of Oil, Gas and Mining (DOGM).

Background

Kerri Nakamura
Chief of Staff

•

• It will mine limestone and other precious metals.
• Operations will consist of drilling, blasting, dozers to rip and push material down
the face of the slope. The material is then fed into aggregate plant composed of a
series of crushers, screens, and belts. Trucks will then be used to transport material out of the mine.
The mine will produce 500,000 tons of material in the first three to five years increasing to 2,000,000
tons per year.

Analysis
Environmental Footprint
•

•

Fugitive Dust
o Any dust from operations of the mine is considered fugitive dust. The owner is responsible to mitigating
any dust plumes with winds under 25 mph. This is usually done using water from hoses or trucks. Once
winds rise above 25 mph the owner is no longer responsible for excess dust.
o Fugitive dust can cause respiratory health impact which could affect recreational users in Mill Creek
Canyon depending on the winds.
Diesel Emissions
o The mine will rely heavily on equipment that uses diesel engines. These engines typically emit heavy
quantities of Carbon Monoxide, PM 10 and 2.5 and Nitrogen Oxides.
o In addition to the impact on users of Mill Creek Canyon, these emissions could contribute to both winter
inversions and summertime ozone.

1 https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/S0350053/2021/Incoming/11122021.pdf

2 https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/M0350054/2021/Incoming/11122021.pdf

1

•

Mine waste
The mine will create thousands of tons of mine waste which could affect the water quality of
downstream communities.
Ecosystem
o The mine will carve out 634 acres of prime Wasatch wildness. This could forever alter the landscape and
destroy native vegetation and animal life.
Visual impacts
o The mine will be located less than a mile from some of the most popular hiking trails in the Wasatch
such as Grandeur Peak, and the Millcreek Pipeline trail. Mill Creek Canyon is one of the most popular
recreation areas in the county.
o

•

•

Map of Proposed Site (mine boundaries in red)

Regulatory Agencies Involved
•

Salt Lake County’s Role
•

The proposed mine would require a conditional use permit/application under Salt Lake County Code Section
19.12.030(J) and Chapter 19.84. The conditional use process would also include a review of the application
for compliance with the Salt Lake County Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zone Ordinance (County Code
Chapter 19.72). A conditional use application would be filed with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District Planning Division, and will likely include required grading permits, stormwater pollution prevention
plans, other agency reviews, etc.
2

•

•

The Salt Lake County Health Department, Environmental Health Division will also need to issue a permit if
the operation includes crushing and processing the limestone on site (as opposed to processing
elsewhere). The Health Department may also be involved in responding to fugitive dust complaints.

State Authority/Process
o

o

Federal
•

Division on Oil, Gas and Mining (DOGM)
▪ The division will decide whether to approve the initial application submitted by Tree Fall LLC
based on DOGM standards and practices. This process is governed under R647-003 (small
mines) and R647004 (large mines) of state statute. This includes a site reclamation plan falling
under the R647-4-110, rules in the Mined Land Reclamation Act
▪ The Legislature recently reduced the requirements for small mines per SB 131.
Division of Environmental Quality
▪ Divisions of Air Quality
• A New Source Review Approval Order (AO) is required if emissions of criteria pollutants
are five tons per year or greater, or hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions are greater
than 500 pounds per year for an individual HAP or 2000 pounds for all HAPS combined.
Title V permits (Operating Permits) are required for major sources, incinerators,
landfills, and acid rain (Title IV) sources., Water, Waste and Remediation will all need to
issue approval orders under their own internal analysis protocols.
▪ Division of Water Quality
• Facilities that produce, treat, dispose of, or otherwise discharge wastewater may need
permits from the Division of Water Quality. The Environmental Protection Agency has
delegated authority to Utah to administer its own water quality regulatory programs
(the EPA still runs this process in many other states).
• The mine will need to submit a stormwater pollution prevention plan and a Utah
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Multi-Sector General Permit.
The land is adjacent to both Forest Service and BLM land but there are no known permitting processes
need by either agency at this time.

Salt Lake City
We will need to further explore with Salt Lake City the extent of its regulatory authority, but the following is an initial list
of concerns articulated by Salt Lake City Public Utilities:
o

Water Quality
▪ The properties appear to be located downstream from Mountain Dell Reservoir and the
treatment plant and are outside of the City’s Watershed areas as they pertain to our watershed
authority.
▪ That said, Salt Lake City also has Clean Water Act obligations in Parleys Creek as it enters the
city. Possible concerns include impacts to Parleys Creek water quality from mining operations,
particularly sediment and pH issues that affect the stream as it enters into Salt Lake City’s
boundaries from either a catastrophic pollution event at the mine or long-term cumulative
degradation.
▪ The properties proposed for the mining operation are within groundwater recharge areas that
could impact groundwater resources that are relied upon by others, including within Millcreek
Canyon. The application mentions drilling bore holes and a well which would be one concern on
impacts to downstream water users. It also mentions the use of oils and chemicals in the
operations that could harm groundwater quality.
3

o

o

Water Resources
▪ Salt Lake City has substantial water rights within this watershed. For erosion and dust control,
the application proposes to drill a well under a state water right and use that water for its
operations. The availability of water rights to be used for this purpose is not documented in the
report and could potentially impair Salt Lake City’s water rights.
▪ There is no information about the quantity of water proposed to be used in the proposal.
▪ The properties are outside of Salt Lake City’s water service area, and SLCPU would not serve
culinary water to the property.
Land Use and Groundwater Source Protection Regulations
▪ This seems to be a potentially large operation that would need multiple reviews from
jurisdictions active in the area.
▪ Research needs to be completed about zoning of the area, and whether this would be allowed
under Salt Lake County land use zoning, FCOZ, and Groundwater Source Protection rules, and
whether the Salt Lake County Municipal Services District or Salt Lake County Health Department
has been informed.
▪ The application is very limited in what it considers “adjoining properties”, and consideration
should be given as to how much notice is being given to the public and nearby residents. Salt
Lake City has significant interest and legal stakes in this watershed and is a downstream
community to the proposed land use.

Recommendation

The Mayor’s Office issue a statement citing potential concerns over the project (in response to a recent media request).

Benefits/Impacts/Limitations
Potential Benefits
The mine would provide tax revenue for the MSD and jobs for residents of SLCo.
Potential Impacts
As mentioned above.

Timeline
Tree farm has until Jan. 17, 2022, to reply to a series of questions by the DOGM. It is unknown at this time when the
issue will come before SLCo. Afterwards it depends on the owner filings with the other regulatory agencies.

Additional Materials
DOGM response to smaller mine:
https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/S0350053/2021/Outgoing/11182021.pdf3
DOGM is still reviewing application for larger mine.

3 Note: Although Scott Baird is shown as a cc on this response, he did not receive a copy of this letter. We are checking with MSD

representatives to determine if they did.

4

Tracking of filings for the larger mine:
https://ogm.utah.gov/minerals/MineralsPDO/angularmineralsfilesbypermit.php?M0350054

5

