From:
To:
Subject:
Date:
Attachments:

Susan Trapp
Council Webex
Comment Letter - In support of amendment of Salt Lake County Code sections 19.12030, 19.72.190 and
19.76030.
Tuesday, April 5, 2022 8:44:01 AM
Document_2022-04-05_082619.pdf

I respectfully would like to submit my comment letter in support of the amendment to Salt
Lake County Code sections 19.12030, 19.72.190, and 19.76.030.
Thank you,
Susan Trapp

April 4, 2022
Salt Lake County Council
State of Utah
RE: Comment Letter regarding Parleys Canyon Proposed Mine:
Salt Lake County Council Meeting on Tuesday, April 4, 2022 at 4:00PM
Dear Salt Lake County Council,
I am a partner in the Richards Family Partnership which owns 664 acres of property directly
adjacent east or near the land on which the proposed open-pit quarry is intended. I also own a
cabin in Mount Air Canyon, which has been a big part of my entire life. I'm writing to you to
convey my concerns and opposition of Tree Farm, LLC's proposal to commence mining on its
property located in Parley's Canyon.
My Great Grandfather homesteaded Mount Aire and our property has been in the Richards
Family for well over 100 years. I am very much emotionally and financially invested in the
Mount Aire community. My concern is that by allowing another open-pit mine to commence
operations in Parley's Canyon, it would be devasting not only for the Mount Aire community,
but for the large community that surrounds the area. Additionally, there are numerous
environmental and health concerns that need serious consideration prior to granting Tree
Farm, LLC permission to proceed with the proposed mine.
Open pit mining operations are devastating to the environment because it exposes dangerous
chemicals buried in the Earth's crust. Quite simply, limestone cannot be mined without
impacting the environment in a negative way. An open-pit mine will cause vibrations and
explosions, land degradation, sinking and landslides, water pollution (toxic water), occupational
noise pollution, and harmful air pollution which can lead to health-related problems, including
loss of biodiversity. The dust, noise, and shaking alone will have a tremendous negative impact
on the Mount Aire community as well as Millcreek and other Salt Lake and Summit County
residents. There are too many harmful and unknown factors that could potentially affect the
environment by allowing a large limestone quarry. If this project is approved, the beauty of
Parleys Canyon and the wildlife will be greatly disturbed.
Furthermore, Tree Farm, LLC has not adequately described how it will ensure that water
pollution is mitigated. As per the Director of Salt Lake City Utilities:

"...sediment from the operation could be washed into Parleys Creek, which flows through an
open channel through much of the city, including Sugar House Park. The director of Salt Lake
City's Department of Public Utilities, Laura Briefer, said she plans to examine the proposal and
identify issues of concern. "We feel we need more information. One [concern] is water quality
from the proposed activities. While it's not upstream from our drinking water sources, it is
upstream from the city," Briefer said. "We read through the report. It doesn't really take into

consideration downstream water-quality issues except to say they are going to put BMTs [best
management practices} in place to mitigate the migration of any pollutants or sediments. It
doesn't talk about long-term degradation" Groundwater could also be impacted by the mining
operations, which could have hydrological connection with Mill Creek Canyon to the south, she
said1"
My hope is that Salt Lake County Council will consider my concerns as a representative of the
Richards Family Partnership, a member of the Mount Aire community, and as a citizen that will
be negatively impacted in Salt Lake County. It is imperative, that much consideration and
investigation of all the harmful effects the mine will have not only on the wildlife population,
but the health and well being of the citizens of Salt Lake and Summit Counties is needed. To
allow Tree Farm, LLC to mine in this location will cause risk and damages to so many who care
about this canyon and community.
In closing, I want to express how terrifying it was as a small child, traveling through Parleys
Canyon with my family to get to our cabin, and being stopped while there was blasting at the
existing mine on the North side of Parleys Canyon. I remember the loud noises, the shaking,
and not being able to see anything outside due to the large dust plume. We were not able to
travel until it was safe and there was visibility. When we arrived to open the gate at the
entrance of Mount Aire Canyon, our car was completely covered with dust particles. I can only
imagine the amount of dust particles and harmful pollutants that will travel with a mining
operation vastly larger than the existing one I am speaking of. It would be naive to think that
the dust pollutants will be contained.
I want to be clear that I am in full support of the Salt Lake County Council moving forward to
amend current codes to prevent future mineral extraction from the mountainous areas of Salt
Lake County. These amendments are necessary to ensure preservation, enjoyment, and safety
within our canyons and communities.
Respectfully,
Susan Trapp
Richards Family Partnership
Managing Partner
2313 E. Creek Road
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84093
801-599-5720

1

Major Limestone Quarry Proposed for Parleys Canyon. Salt Lake Tribune. November 24, 2021

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Stephen Morris
Council Webex
In support of Parley"s Canyon zoning amendment
Monday, April 4, 2022 4:57:00 PM

Hello,
I am a resident of Millcreek City’s Canyon Rim area. I live directly in the path of the air flow (often wind) that
comes down Parley’s Canyon. For many years I have been battling the dust created by Harper’s mining operation on
the north side of the canyon. It discolors my stucco and brick and coats my roof, with the result that my rain gutters
fill up with dirt and mud every year. The last thing we need is another mine in Parley’s Canyon, especially in a time
when air quality in the Salt Lake Valley is already very poor much of the time, nor do we need the additional truck
traffic in the lower canyon where traffic is already hazardous. I strongly urge you to pass the zoning amendment that
would prohibit further mining in the canyon.
Respectfully,
Stephen B. Morris
3167 E Louise Ave
Millcreek, UT 84109
801-918-3388

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Joshua Lichty
Council Webex
No More Gravel Pits
Monday, April 4, 2022 6:10:14 PM

When will we stop pandering to corporations trying to make a buck off of our natural
resources? Please vote an emphatic NO on the gravel pit.
Sincerely Josh and Maria Lichty

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Leslie Chadwick
Council Webex
Parley"s Canyon mine
Tuesday, April 5, 2022 1:58:50 AM

Please do everything in your power to prohibit any additional mining operations in or near
Parley's Canyon. It would add more particulate matter to the already atrocious air quality here
in Salt Lake City. It would also require water which is in scarce supply. These are just some
of the reasons I strongly object to any further mining being allowed.
SLC Resident

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

bruce thomas
Council Webex
Parley"s Canyon Mine
Tuesday, April 5, 2022 8:45:21 AM

I live in E. Millcreek not far from the mouth of Parley's Canyon. I've seen large dust clouds
coming from the current mine in the canyon. Another mine will make things worse for all the
residents of our neighborhood. The additional truck traffic to transport the aggregate from
the mine will further worsen air quality in the immediate neighborhood and the valley in
general. I urge you to prohibit more mining in the canyon.
Bruce Thomas
2822 E Canyon View Dr.
Millcreek

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Chris Dedrickson
Council Webex
Parleys gravel pit
Tuesday, April 5, 2022 9:53:39 AM

Why in the world would would anyone as ecologically minded as the city council, even think of allowing such a
polluting eyesore on a major freeway between SLC and Park City? The added truck traffic, the dust, the destruction
of a beautiful scenic corridor….don’t let it be a negative factor to the tourism so essential to our state.
Thank you
(Resident). Chris Dedrickson

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Bizzie Watson
Council Webex
Parley"s mine
Monday, April 4, 2022 4:54:41 PM

Dear council,
I am a resident of the Canyon Rim neighborhood. I want to add my voice to the opposition of
a second mine in Parley's canyon. We already struggle with air quality in the valley, a second
mine would make our air much worse. This is an especially important issue as I have 4 young
children, including a daughter with severe asthma. Please consider those of us who live in this
area and how our health is at stake and do not allow another mine to operate in Parley's
canyon.
Sincerely,
Elizabeth Watson

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Bill Tobey
Council Webex
Proposed Amendments to Salt Lake County Zoning Ordinances
Monday, April 4, 2022 11:04:14 PM

We the undersigned members of the Emigration Canyon Community Council wish to express
our unanimous support for the amendments currently under consideration to Title 19 of Salt
Lake County Code, specifically:
<!--[if !supportLists]-->• <!--[endif]-->The amendments to Section 19.12.030 that
eliminate mineral extraction and processing as conditional uses, and explicitly prohibit those
and similar uses in forestry and recreation zones
<!--[if !supportLists]-->• <!--[endif]-->The amendments to Section 19.72.190 that
eliminate mineral extraction and processing as uses for which waivers can be granted
<!--[if !supportLists]-->• <!--[endif]-->The amendments to Section 19.76.030 that address
classification of permitted and conditional uses not listed in title 19 and enact related
regulations.
We believe that large-scale mining operations are an inappropriate use of county lands zoned
for forestry and recreation, and that especially in the case of Parley’s Canyon they may pose
unacceptable risks to air quality, water quality, private residences, and public safety. We urge
the council to eliminate support for such uses from county code.

William Tobey, Chairman

Stephanie Harpst

Dan Anderson, Co-Chair

Michael Jimenez

Paul Brown, Treasurer

Gregory Rudowski

Matt Velinder, Secretary

Bryan Johansen

Steve Borst
Claire Clark

Zach Posner

