220222_001
Sun, 3/20 11:58PM • 59:28
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
county, district, salt lake county, pam, service, entity, contracts, local districts, waste recycling, board,
sandy, communities, utah, run, questions, governmental entity, kids, serve, area, meeting
00:00
Okay, great. So the agenda. Let me see if I can pull that up real quick. Without my system getting to
stop. Okay, so Okay. Welcome, everybody. We'll get started and looks like our February meeting will
skip the pledge. Introductions? Public comment? Do we have any public comment? Anybody
00:45
I guess I can mention the the article I was talking about just a second ago. Today on KSL, entitled, The
need for affordable housing runs up against zoning laws in various communities. And it's worth reading
for anybody that's interested in zoning and growth. There was two different groups that were mentioned
in the article. The first one is called the Utah foundation. This is dealing with with trying to lead
developers to develop more what they call mental housing, or or, you know, anywhere from four plexes
on up to condos. And so you know, they're not talking about the huge developments, but they're talking
about more dense than just single family homes. And I guess developers say that they have a real hard
time trying to develop anything that's not a single family home, because these communities just don't
want it. It's the nimbyism of having that type of development. But it's interesting article that there's a
Utah foundation mentioned in the article, and also this Envision Utah, both groups seem to be very pro
development. I kind of commented on the article there in the comments afterwards that, you know, this
shouldn't be about how many apartment complexes Can we now stuffed into everybody else's
communities, but rather, it should start with water. You know, if we're not looking down the road and
thinking if we don't, if we're having trouble with water shortages, now, we still have maybe 20 to 40
years left of drought is what the climatologists are saying, then, how are we still talking about letting
developers just go full speed ahead. So there's still this disconnect. It's bizarre to me, where there's this
thinking about tomorrow, they're not thinking about 1020 30 years from now, but that's all I got on that.
02:59
Gotcha. Thanks, Tim. John, do you have anything like, on, you know, the mining, the gravel pit or
anything like that?
03:13
Other than Planning and Zoning Board unanimously to recommend to the council and we change the
ordinance for mining and mineral extraction of parties Kanan. So hopefully, that will happen. No, you're
wrong. I want to tell you, thank you for writing that letter from block. Letter got read at

-1-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

03:38
the meeting? Ah, okay. Fantastic. Yeah, that was a good, you know, we put as much as we could in
there and gave them my recommendation. So I know, it's just a recommendation, but it's coming from
the residents that live in the unincorporated areas. That would it would affect partly so thanks, John, for
bringing that to our attention to
04:06
Well, I hope we can get that project killed, because it's the last thing we need to do is destroy another
Canyon.
04:14
Yo. Alright. I'm Dave.
04:18
John. And Ron, let me ask, is there can they do a total moratorium from this point forward in Salt Lake
County, regarding new new mining, and new, you know, gravel pits and so forth? Is that what they're
trying to do? Because then we wouldn't have to keep addressing this each time somebody wants to do
this. They could just say sorry, after, you know, seven sets a day, there's no new mining allowed in Salt
Lake County. That would be awesome. Yeah, I think
04:46
put a moratorium on others once they change the ordinance. Right. They've got to change the
ordinance in order to start that project.
04:57
Alright, um, anybody else with anything else? Okay. Oh, go ahead.
05:05
Maybe just quick question. minutes from last meeting. You talked about tax exempt potential status,
05:16
right? So yeah, no, I think everyone's okay with it, it's just a matter of I got to pull together the bylaws,
we'll have to come up with a name, and they'll have to draft up the incorporation documents. So it's just,
it's just minor paperwork to get it running. And then getting everybody on the same page, we'll have to
put a board membership together and and get it started. And then we can start raising. If we put
together this 501, C three, we can start raising funds for our communities and stuff. And I know some
foundations that are really looking forward to donating money to to what we do so
06:06
stick around and have that.
06:08
No granite doesn't. They want, they want to be a part of it. And I think Big Cottonwood has their own.
I'm not sure it's a different type of 501 C three, though, ours would be more of? Well, when I draft the

-2-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

bylaws up, and then you guys can read through it. We're gonna definitely, you know, hash it out, we'll
make some changes to it. But as far as our purpose goes, you know, we're kind of already doing it now.
But I think we can. I think we can get some donations to help us out with that. Yep. Anything else? Any
other comments? All right, we'll move on to the minutes for January 25. They sent out the the
transcripts for that. Do we have a motion to accept the minutes from January?
07:07
No. Now motion.
07:10
Do we have a second? Sara? Thanks, Dave. All right. We got John and Dave. All in favor say aye. Aye.
Any opposed? Okay, motion carries. So next up is we've got a couple of guests here. I was reached out
to from Pam Roberts, to invite them to lock and so Pam could make it but Renee, and also we have
Rachel. Yeah. So you guys, you guys have the floor. Welcome.
07:51
Alright, awesome. Well, like I said earlier, Ron is great to see you tonight. I don't see you. But I hear
you. I met you guys not too long ago. Just filling in for and tonight is those the rest of you that I haven't
met. And I'm the Administrative Manager for the Wasatch Front waste recycling district. And so I'll be
filling in for pan here and there. And I'm going to try to get to most of these meetings just to stay
involved. And that's the primary duty of my position is to just really collaborate with the community, look
at private roads, work on contracts, and just help the executive team with anything that they need. So
one update that I know that that Pam wanted to give, and also requests that she was going to ask was
that, as
08:37
some of you may know, we have been looking to move
08:42
towards a reorganization from a special services district down to a local district. And the council
approved on the eighth to move forward with the resolution of intent. And I'm going to hand it over to
Rachel, who's going to explain a little bit more of what what request Pam was going to cover tonight. All
right, great. Thanks, Ray. I'm sorry, I forgot to introduce formally. Rachel she is our attorney for offered.
So yeah. So sorry, Rachel. Go ahead.
09:12
No problem. Thanks, thinks. I'm just pulling my notes here on the stages, so make sure you don't miss
anything. Pam is so awesome. She always has all the dates and the details memorized on this and I
I'm not as good as that. So I like to have my notes up on the site, but we kind of came in here today as
a last minute replacement. Pam had another obligation tonight but I'm curious first of all, is it she talked
to you about this topic before or my the first time that you're hearing about this? This situation?
09:42

-3-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

Um, so we got little bits and pieces but yeah, it wasn't clear on you know, well, I I kind of know. I've
talked to pat myself, but I think it'd be for these guys. I think it'd be great. Yeah.
09:57
Perfect. I just need to know my audience. If you don't want to board You have stuff you already know.
So Renee introduced it pretty perfectly. We want to, we're working on a conversion from a special
service district to local district, which is legalese, and most people don't understand. So I'm just going to
explain to you what that means and why. As you may be aware, that the district form of government is
is one of the forms of government that we have as an option. In the state of Utah. We have counties we
have municipalities, which include towns, cities and Metro townships. We also have districts so we
have two different district types that are allowed by statute under the law. We have local districts and
we have special service districts. local districts are really independent governmental entities. You are
familiar with many local districts I serve your water and sewer districts typically are your local districts.
Fire Districts, Parks and Recreation are often local districts. Sometimes their parks and recreation is
done through the city or county but they can also be local districts like the Cottonwood Heights, Parks
and Recreation service area is a local district. So we these are entities that provide limited purpose or
limited special services, as it's denoted in the name, so we're not providing broad municipal services,
but we focus on one or a handful. And so obviously, the Wasatch Front waste and recycling district is is
one of those districts and we also the another distinction of districts is that our services can be provided
across larger boundaries. We're not, you know, subject to, you know, one city, we can cross multiple
cities, parts of cities, multiple counties, it's just a bit more flexibility. But we are a full fledged
governmental entity, just like those other entities and we have different powers and authorities pursuant
to statute. So the difference between a special service district and a local district is a bit of a technical
one special service districts are created by another governmental entity, typically a city or a county. And
the typically they they retain the county or the entity or the municipality that created them retains some
control over that entity to a varying degree. So in our case, Wasatch Front waist was created by Salt
Lake County in 1977, actually, and at that point, we were what was it called the Salt Lake County
Sanitation. district number one or something like that that was a common way that districts were named
back in the day. And the purpose was to provide waste collections for the residents of unincorporated
county. At that point in time, they didn't utilize Special Service Districts necessarily. They didn't give the
special service district a lot of independence, it was still run through the county was more or less just a
division of the county, despite having been created as a as a special service district. But as all of you
are very well aware, as time has gone on and more of the unincorporated areas Incorporated, a lot of
things have changed. And those cities and Metro townships have wanted more say in the governance
of their of their municipal services, including the district services that are provided to them. And so in, I
think it was 2013. The, the district was a waste and recycling district was reorganized in a way the first
time we were still a special service district. But we were jettisoned off from the county to the maximum
extent possible under the law. We took over our billing, we took all responsibility for the employees and
benefits are completely under the responsibility of the administrative control board of the district rather
than the county council and making decisions. Honestly, at that time, I think that the the intent and the
desire was for the district to be completely independent from the county. But because we were created
as a special service district, we we still were stuck under those rules of the statute that said that the
county still had final say in several matters the county can.

-4-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

14:48
If we ever wanted to impose a tax, which we do not want to do, I will make that very clear. That's not
the intention at all, but that we have to go through the county rather than our board, if we were ever to
do any sort of boundary adjustments that has to go through The county rather than our board, and we
have a real real life case of that that happened just a few years ago. In the sandy area, we made some
adjustments there for parts that were being serviced by us. But it made more sense for Sandy city to
take over. It was a simple boundary adjustment that all the parties that were involved with were in
support of, but we couldn't do it ourselves, we need to go to the county and have them administer that
course, because statutorily they're the ones who take take that role. But as I saying, in 2013, when
when we were renamed the Wasatch Front waist have given as much independence as possible. I
think the intent was at that time, if it had been possible was to become fully independent. But there just
wasn't a method to convert from that special district special services to perform to a local district, which,
like I said earlier, has full independence. And they're the board of a local district controls all of those
things that is just saying. So they went to the legislature, and they got a change made in statute, which
provided for a process to convert from a special service district to local district. And the statute was
made specifically with Law Center wasted in mind. But in the intervening years, it just hasn't been done,
we haven't taken advantage of that statute get and finished the process that was intended so many
years ago, the district had a lot on its plate, when we first were were separated from the county in terms
of taking over all operations internally rather than through the counties. So they had a lot on their plate,
and again, didn't address this right away. But we're to that point now where we wanted to complete that
process. And complete the conversion for a local district to become a local district. We feel that the
conversion, like I've said, completes the process that was started and intended several years ago, it
keeps control of the district within the hands of the administrative control board, or which would be just
the Board of Trustees. Once that's done. All of the representative areas have representation on the
board. That's another thing that was that was has been a little tricky. See, when new areas were
incorporated, including the Metro townships, our original charter didn't even have the space for them to
be on our board and the county had to go through and completely amend our charter documents to
even allow municipalities tickets sit on our board, which was kind of obvious. So we just want to not
have to deal with with those kinds of administrative and bureaucratic hurdles anymore, and just be able
to completely run ourselves, but still have that full representation from all the communities that we
serve, including Salt Lake County, which would represent the unincorporated areas. So we've started
the process, it requires all of the municipalities within the district to approve, and we have gotten
approval from every municipality, both the cities and the Metro townships. To proceed with this, which
is great, I think we have a strong better support for this from all of the municipalities that we serve. And
then we approached the county and we felt we it was important to to get the broader support from a
miss municipalities first, because if any one of them wasn't a go, then the process would fail. And so we
really wanted to be able to show that this is what the communities want. So we got those and we went
to the county, and have kind of been working with them for the last several months to address their
concerns. They wanted to make sure that we had everything lined up the way it shouldn't be in terms of
our you know, our lease agreement with them and our agreements as to how we use the the county
landfill and transfer station, and things like that. And we've gotten everything there to a point where I
think everyone is happy. No swear things are going and so the Salt Lake County passed their intent
resolution couple weeks ago indicating their intent to proceed. And at this point, we are now waiting for
the public hearing. When they email the date of the public hearing. That's one thing I don't have on my

-5-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

19:18
notes. I do it's March 22 At four o'clock in the afternoon, so the
19:23
county will be holding that public hearing on that date. And in the interim, both before that, and then of
course at the public hearing, they'll be taking public comment if there is any regarding the conversion
and then after that they are free to approve of the conversion. And then we'll file the the necessary
documents with the Lieutenant Governor's office to get our title changed. And so, at this point, we feel
strongly strongly that this is obviously a good path forward for us and we feel like we have a lot of
support From all of the communities that we serve, we feel like we've addressed the county's concerns.
There were some concerns which I'll bring up, because they affect you that that were brought up at the
last meeting where the county did ultimately pass its intended resolution. They, they have concerns that
someone mentioned that what if we become independent, and we decide to drop unincorporated areas,
just because we have no interest in serving the unincorporated, it makes more financial sense for us to
not have to deal with those. And I'm here to say that that is not only not our intent at all, it's it's not very
feasible for us to do that, in any event, are we converting your local visitors doesn't convert us into, you
know, like a private entity that's solely focused on profits, we're still a governmental entity that has the
same interests and desire to just serve the residents of Salt Lake County, as we, as we already do now.
So you know, it's not it's not like we're in this for the money and just wanting to make the most money
and wherever possible, and cut out the the parts that aren't serving us, so to speak. So there's really no
intention there to cut anything off. And additionally, there's this quite detailed statutory process, which
we would be required to go through to even cut out an area. And it involves either a petition of the
residents of that area, or it could be started by our own resolution. However, there are some pretty
stringent requirements that must be met before we ever be able to complete a withdrawal which
includes, you're required to make sure that the another entity is up and ready to step in our place and
provide the services that we are providing. It also cannot happen if doing so would put the district in any
under any financial stress or break any of our contractual obligations. We are not allowed to do it if it
would create an island or peninsula of non district territory within our district. And that's, that would
probably be a big one that would prevent us from ever just jettisoning off recorded portions of
unincorporated county. So it's not a concern that we think is very likely to to be a problem. It's not our
intent, nor is it really possible easily for us to just kick areas to the curb, we want to we want to provide
services to the residents that we have, and continue doing so. So I think that concern is is is not really
there. But aside from that, I'm happy to answer any questions. And and the main reason that we are
sort of here in front of you today is as Pam was going to present this to you is that we would love if this
service is amenable to you to get a letter of support from you written to this to the Salt Lake County
during this public comment time period before the public hearing. So that they understand that they
have your support as well, especially since you know we've already got the like I said the the resolution
supporting it from all of the incorporated municipalities and Metro townships. We would love to hear
from the unincorporated county since that's really what the Salt Lake County interest is looking after is
your interest. So I'll leave it at that. I know it's probably spent way too long. But and that's a lot of legal
jargon and, and dense stuff to go through. So any questions I'm happy to answer.
23:38

-6-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

So yeah, Rachel, I have a couple of questions. So what happens to like the assets when you guys
move over? Do you guys get to keep all your trucks all the dumpsters, the staff, the buildings, what
transfers over?
23:59
Everything stays the same. So currently, we are we already do own all those things. That's kind of the
thing, the big thing that happened in 2013 when they separated us from the county. And it's a weird
little nuances. I know it's hard to kind of explain like what even is the difference between a special
services or going to local district. It's honestly not a big one. But because Special Service Districts even
though they still live under the umbrella of the entity that created them, they still have no power to own
assets and or contracts. Honestly, I was even involved as an attorney in a legal case where a special
service district sued it's creating entity and they were able to be opposing parties in a lawsuit so that we
are already have a great deal of independence. We already own our own assets and we already have
our own contracts. I would compare this to changing the form of a business from an LLC to a
corporation. Nothing about the entity itself necessarily changes its own legal designation that changes
That's it. So and that's actually the great thing is we don't need to renegotiate contracts, we don't need
to do anything all that is already in our name, our name doesn't change. It's just changing the entity
type.
25:10
So is that going to affect the transfer station or the landfill?
25:18
No, because those services that we use to the county are gone already under contract, we already
have a contract with Salt Lake County, that allows us to use those facilities and in fact requires us to
use them to a certain extent they have we attended requirements for those facilities. So again, that we
already have those contracts, it's sort of like I, like I said, that entity that I that I'm aware of that soon its
own creating entity, they're able to be opposing parties. Similarly, we're already able to be opposing
parties on a contract. So we're already in that contractual relationship with the county. And there's
nothing that needs to change or be amended or modified at all to keep that contract going. And like I
said, that was one of the major concerns of the county, when they first were, when they were first
approached with our request is like you, they wanted to make sure that all the contracts and everything
we have in place, remain in place, and that there's nothing about this that blows any of that up or that
requires us to renegotiate. Likewise, the building that we are in is a county building, and we lease our
space there and nothing about that changes either. So everything pretty much stays the same. It's just
there's a few things that that we will now have the power to do without having to go to the county to do
it for us, such as boundary adjustments, if we were ever to bond, which we've never done before, the
only the only thing I can really anticipate what we would like bond for is if we were to, I don't know, go
out and make our own building, which again, we don't have any intend to do that at this point. But I'm
just throwing out wild examples.
26:55
So I'm wondering is, is the county going to remain the landlord of the facility down there? And the
Advil?

-7-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

27:02
They are for now? Yeah. They also occupy a portion of that building as well. So it's not like we are the
sole user of that building. Renee, can you I don't remember who is it that lives in the upstairs of that?
27:15
That is the county, we're on the first floor there on the second floor. And we actually share conference
rooms and in the fitness center, and everything else in
27:24
their public works department is that it was there? Yes, yes. Yes, true.
27:29
Okay, I was just wondering, you know, I thought, you know, it'd be nice to see, you know, I think that
the service model, that Wasatch Front, has been a great model for services for the public. And I'd like
to see, actually Wasatch front with a stronger foothold or foundation for itself, you know, so
27:59
yeah, I think that's exactly what this does. Another thing that is always hanging over our head as a
special service district is that because the county created the district, they created the administrative
control board, they could take back that delegation of authority at any time, they could say, you know,
what, we don't want this to be run by an administrative control board. We want to take back control and
we're running ourselves. Now politically, I don't think there's any chance of that happening. But I mean,
that's another thing that kind of hangs over our head is that they do still own the organization in a way
28:37
is do any you guys have any questions?
28:41
I'm just kind of curious. What's the what percentage of households in the valley this waste recycling?
Approximately?
28:50
Oh, Renee, do you know that answer?
28:53
Honestly, I don't know. The percentage is I know that we're up
28:56
to 86,200 plus
28:59
customers, so it's quite a quite a big chunk.

-8-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

29:06
Municipalities that surround Sandy Hills Community Council, and translate Cottonwood Heights are
29:12
Yeah, so we serve Cottonwood Heights Hanin a holiday Mill Creek, Taylorsville, certain parts of Murray
and Sandy, not the whole part. And then all the Metro townships and then all of the unincorporated
areas.
29:27
And parts of Sandy too, right. Yeah, I seen Sandy now has a has a representative on the board. So
29:38
yeah. So the way that happened is, you know, we started as a service just for the unincorporated
areas, like I said, and as more and more incorporations happened. Our boundaries didn't actually
change. So if something incorporates they don't necessarily get withdrawn from our district. So that's
what happened in Sandy as we You know, representing all the unincorporated areas, but as Sandy, as
you know, has started to grab all the unincorporated areas that didn't take them away from us. And so
there in some instances, we definitely still serve parts of Sandy. Because incorporating later, there are
some of those areas. And, again, I apologize, because I don't know the details as well as Pam does.
But that's one of the boundary adjustments we did a couple years ago is there were some areas that
had been annexed into Sandy, that no longer made sense for us to serve. And so we did would do a
withdrawal and get those over to Sandy.
30:32
And you guys are still serving parts of Murray as well. Right? Yes. Okay.
30:38
Yes. That's another one. I don't know all the details on but I do know that they were given an option at
one point that whether they wanted to stay or be incorporated with the greater marine service, and they
resoundingly voted to stay with us, right. So
30:56
yeah, yeah. I think Richard Snelgrove actually lived in that area. And he's told that story to us before.
So do you guys have any other questions for
31:09
either question for Rachel? Rachel, do you foresee any rate hikes as a result of becoming a local
district? Are there any foreseeable future rate hikes,
31:29
there will be no rate hikes as a result of this conversion operations, it's going to be a seamless
transition is really just a legal title change. So it does not affect their service area, a lot of what
happened in 2013, when the county supplanted control of the district over to the administrative control
board. There were some things that changed, then, you know, we had to take over and billing and be

-9-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

responsible for employees. And suddenly, you know, the numbers mattered more to the district
because more able to share with anything else that was going on at the county. But this change is not
like that. There's nothing operationally that will change. So that said, I know that we probably will be
considering some some rate changes in the future, just due to economic reasons. But that nothing to do
with this that's happening, regardless of whether we convert, and I, I don't know when that will happen.
But in the next few years, legit, I don't think one or maybe I speak you
32:32
know, it's great. I'm you guys are very affordable. So I don't think anybody's concerned there. But would
there be any other financial, let's say, advantages or disadvantages to either the county or to
Washington for waste recycling? Or is there literally this is just almost just a paper work? Change? And
that's it. And also, employees, like all employees benefits, change in any way health care? anything
along those lines?
33:03
No. To the last question about employee benefits again, now, that was a change that was made back in
2013, when we were given almost entire independence from the district, and we took over employee
benefits and everything. So that that won't have any changes with this change with this conversion to a
local district. In terms of financial impact? I, I think the answer is that there is none. I'm trying to wrack
my brain to think if there's anything that I can think of, but really, the way that we've been operating now
is going to continue to be the way we operate in the future we already have, we have some contracts
with the city or sorry, with the county for things like it. services, but again, that's already provided under
contract, not because they are our parent organization or anything like that. And we have the
opportunity to at any time to go out to bid, do an RFP and find someone else if we if we want to, you
know, and that's true with with all of our financial contracts that way. The only thing I can think of is like
I said, when when we if we become a local district, we will have the power to bond and new property
taxes. Like I said, there's there's certainly no intention to ever do a property tax. We don't think that
even makes sense for the type of organization that we are we run as an enterprise fund. That's entirely
fee based. And we think that that makes no sense. So there's really no intention to do that. The other
thing I'll note is that the power to bond and tax already does exist. So that's not changing. It's just a
matter of who's the authority that gets to decide if we ever do either of those things right now. The
county council has the power to decide we no longer tax and would when we convert, it's the
administrative or the it's the board that would have the power to decide that but the power already
exists
34:58
and wouldn't The way it exists now is if you guys are running really well, and your your bonding ability
and credit, let's say is actually gone to the County, the county is you're gaining the bonding ability and
credit from all the work that you guys do. So this essentially would, if you guys become your own entity,
then the harder you work, the better your credit scores get, and the better your bonding ability, and the
worse you do, you're going to suffer the consequences of that as well. So, you know, I think it's a great
thing, because you're actually, the harder you work, someone else is benefiting from it. So in my
opinion, anyway. Yeah, absolutely.

- 10 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

35:48
Yeah. And, Ron, one of the questions that y'all had come up on that ACC team meeting was if we
would lose any subsidiaries, and I confirmed, looking at the budget and talking with all the CFO that no,
we're not losing any more in this direction.
36:03
Cool. Well, guys, are you is there any other questions?
36:12
One more, is there any thought about growing the brand, if you will, about perhaps looking at picking up
work outside of Salt Lake County in the future? I
36:29
I'm not aware of any. But I don't know. Renee, do you have any other?
36:33
No, I any of the discussions I've had with with Pam? No, I haven't heard of Matt. So
36:41
what about any new developments in the unincorporated county? Do you guys automatically get the
services for those? We serve? Wow. Okay, that
36:53
incorporated is already within our boundaries. So it's already our not only our ability, but our obligation
to serve those areas. Gotcha. As long as they're not private roads, which I won't get into their bikes,
right.
37:08
So that kind of doesn't have to go through the county either, then anymore, it's automatically in the
service, the district boundaries. Boundaries. Gotcha. Perfect. Wow.
37:20
And that's why the fee base model works so well, because we just, we add on the fee to the
homeowners to you know that it costs us to write service so
37:31
well, and I've always thought that the economies of scale always helps because the more people you
have paying in the pot, the better services you get at a cheaper price. So
37:43
exactly.
37:46

- 11 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

What just make it easier to keep by now transport keep saying we're filling up, we're gonna shut down.
Salt Lake County landfill seems to be willing to take it anytime is there any danger of a landfill spilling
38:02
constable rock was worth all too well, or don't know, the Bingham Canyon mine when they shut that
down.
38:10
There are definitely answers to those questions. Pam Roberts is probably better to jump on. Unless you
know, Renee, I don't know how involved you are with us. And you're getting into deep operational
questions that that's just not what I deal with.
38:24
So from what I understand, the Salt Lake County landfill still has 50 years of life left in it. And the
Jordan, the Jordan Valley landfill has like five years left. So they're gonna have to start shipping their
garbage out unless they contract with the county landfill, I'm sure. But there was at one time they use a
transfer station. And there was a train that came up with coal in would take it up north and drop it off on
its way back, it would pick garbage up and then haul the garbage back down somewhere in central
Utah. And but I guess we filled up their landfill as well, really fast. So
39:11
I, I know that Pam I have definitely talked to Pam about these issues before and it's something that she
is very up to speed on and very aware of and has thoughts about where we're going in that direction.
So it's no I haven't thought of it. It's just I don't know,
39:25
if you guys could pass along little something to Pam. I was talking to my daughter's physical therapist,
and she's from Oregon. And she said, and I don't know if this is going to go over here but it is
something you know to the effect that we are a society of we throw away so much stuff that it's it's
crazy so but what I'm what they do, I think she's from Portland and what they do up there is the more
garbage you throw away The more you pay. And so what that does is when people go, when they go
like grocery shopping, rather than getting, you know, you try to reduce the amount of garbage that you
produce. So you're starting to think in a different way. So because the more you throw away, the more
you're going to pay. And I don't know if that would go over well here, but we do need, I think we need a
recycling plant here. And we need, we need some new ideas, because we're just going to bury
ourselves in garbage at some point. So
40:39
that's one of the other benefits of the district model, in my opinion, is because we're not prying, or yet
we're not private entities, we're not interested in profits, we actually do have an interest in getting
people to not use our products as much, you know, that's kind of a funny thing for most private entities
to think of is please don't use us. But it's the same thing that you know, water entities are dealing with
these. They're slowing the flow. I mean, how many other companies? Can you think of that there? They
have campaigns out there to tell you to not to not use us too much. And I think you're absolutely right, I

- 12 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

think that we'll be seeing similar things with garbage, if we can encourage people not to use it as much
that's ultimately going to extend the life of everything.
41:24
Right, right. Any other questions, guys?
41:30
Raj got one. Yeah. Green can cost the green can more or less than the cost of the Black can to the
blue can
41:45
answer for you. And you can find out the exact cost here. The green can easily is less than the black.
Did you know that? I think that there's a sort of fee of $60 for the key and, and it's $126 per year. It is
cheaper than the black is the Black has to her for dollars.
42:15
Gotcha. Okay. All right, guys. Um, well, if you guys are in support of this, we can write a letter you guys.
Are you guys okay with writing a letter in support of this move?
42:29
On let's let's see if anybody objects because of I'm all for it. I you know, Wasatch Front. Waste
Recycling is one of the entities and service providers that we have that that it all goes smoothly, and we
don't have to worry about it. And the cost is fair. And so, and I have no, you know, and I and I trust Pam
and their leadership that they're doing the right thing, so I'm all for it.
42:57
John, do you have any comment?
43:01
No, I think it's a good thing. Really. I'm in favor of
43:06
it. And Dave? Sounds good. To Ron. Okay. Yeah, well, we'll go ahead and write a letter of support. And
I'll get that over to Pam and the County Council.
43:21
Thank you so much. We really appreciate it. Okay.
43:24
Yeah. Thanks for being here with us. All right, next on the agenda is, let's see what we got here.
43:42

- 13 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

So it doesn't look like Lisa Hartman's with us. Um, so, Community Council concerns and issues. I know
one thing is, is we probably ought to write a letter to the mayor and the county council about our liaison,
because they just haven't been common. What do you what do you guys say to that? Should I
44:10
be the liaison?
44:12
Well, Lisa Hartman supposed to be here in place of the liaison until they get one but she's she just quite
common, too. So. Um, yeah, I'll find out. I'll follow up on the liaison and see what's going on. Um, do
you guys have any other community council concerns or issues
44:37
I didn't get much from Kayla for that last meeting. So she's gonna send things I didn't say anything.
44:45
Um, yeah, I don't know. I so I think all she was going to is she just had her. All she sent me was her
contact info. Do you want me to forward that to you? that'd be great, but for sure, okay. And then other
than that, there's still a survey. There's some stuff and I can send that stuff to you guys as well. I think
you got it. But if not, Dave, you might not have been on that string from Kayla, and I'll have her include
you on that.
45:21
I think I received that. But it was just from January 20.
45:27
Okay. No worries. I will. Yeah. Thank you. You bet. You know, she, by the way, I got an email from her
today. And she was like, Do you guys still want to meet on? I think it's January. Let's see. Honestly, it
was March 17. Because it's St. Patrick's Day. And I thought that was kind of a bizarre request. You
guys still want to meet? I would say yeah, we just keep we continue to have that meeting on the 17th.
Yeah, yeah. It doesn't make. Okay. We'll just keep moving forward. So she did say that we are getting
two signs. One's going to be on Galaxy drive, and one's going to be on at 425. South. Yeah.
46:33
And you know, Ron, I commented back to her, that from my standpoint, she's missing the boat,
unfortunately. Because there's nothing about ABCs 100 cells.
46:45
Okay, did you
46:47
take anything away from 8425, or whatever it is, or Galaxy drive. But, you know, at 600 south, right
there at the church is where the school kids cross the street. And there's nothing in that thing for ABC
center itself. So they're back on the ship. That should be because they didn't do a very good job.

- 14 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

47:08
Okay. Well,
47:12
10 times the traffic?
47:14
Absolutely. All right, um, I'll get that on there, you know, should be on their radar. But we'll, we'll bring
that up as well.
47:25
Ordering, you know, if they're considering so, you know, there is that there is that speed side, if you're
headed westbound on 8600. Up above the church, as you're coming down that hill, there's a speed sign
kind of at the bottom of the hill, because people's speed tend to tends to pick up going down that hill.
But once you once you're past the park, then yeah, then I agree that there needs to be a sign further
down. Yeah, that sign is there because that Sandy, but then once you get into Salt Lake County, so the
county has been way behind the behind the times when it comes to speed zones, but $50,000 a
whack? I mean, I was talking to Ron about this,
48:06
you know, 5000
48:09
I'm sorry. $5,000. A whack. Yeah. 50,000 would be this world. Now, just still a $5,000. Still, to me, for
just a speed sign dropped in the ground. seems excessive, but but they are expensive. I did look it up
online. I asked Caleb, what the who the manufacturer was who they're buying from? what the costs are
is any other associated costs as far as studies blade and what the labor charges from the county or
whatever. And so those were questions that she said she'll get forwarded to us. Yeah, that'd be
interesting to know. Yeah, for sure. All right. Interesting,
48:57
when we read those RV with those guys next week, to find out what the actual Carstairs. Yeah,
49:02
I'd like to know myself. Comment, you know, right now, because Peruvian park is closed, the
elementary school, you know, the bus picks the kids up in front of the LDS church, they're on the south.
And if you've been anywhere near there in the morning, or either in the afternoon, you know that that is
that just shuts traffic down some fears. And so I wrote to the, to the crossing guard coordinator, or, or
sandy city, and I asked her if she could contact the bus people to see if they would be willing to pull into
the church parking lot and take the kids up inside of the church parking lot. That would be a lot safer for
the kids. And it wouldn't create the congestion that that does during the time when the kids load and
unload. That was really interesting, she came back to me and said notion that they couldn't do it.
Because the church would not release the liability of having the bus enter the church Park button.

- 15 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

That's what's kind of interesting, because Robert patrons Park in that church Park, people talk to get
the kids off school. And then furthermore, when they were doing the work for Google Fiber coming
down the street, all the Google Fiber trucks would park to the church parking lot, right? In the evening,
rather than on maybe six letter south. It's just funny how things go.
50:36
Well, I've known the canyon School District, they're very particular. And I think their lawyers actually run
that. I mean, they, the administrators there, they don't do anything without having their lawyers go
through with scrutiny, you know, on everything, because it's a liability, oh, that's a liability. Everything's
a liability with the Canaan school district. And it's almost, in my opinion, they, they rely on it so much,
that it's choking them down from actually functioning properly. So you can, you can only do that so
much without and then not be able to function. So. But yeah, that's the canyon School District.
51:22
Now, following up speaking about schools and liability, if folks haven't had a chance to go out on the
internet yet, and look at the story of that young boy, I think he was like, in Michigan, that killed those
four students inside the school, if you haven't been following up on that. What's interesting part of that
is that the school has been has $100 million live lawsuit filed against them, for their part, supposedly,
could donate the activities that get some of the things that that kid did while he was in school. And the
school is actually quite scary when you stop and think about it, because, you know, nobody ever said
anything. And it's really fascinating story.
52:18
You know, it's interesting, the state of Utah passed a law that kind of protects the, because the schools
were getting sued, and all these entities were getting sued so much, that their liability was just getting
out of control. So the state legislature here in Utah passed a law that you can only sue like school
districts on specific things, and it's a it's a limited amount, you can't sell them for hundreds of millions of
dollars anymore. So there is still some punitive stuff. I think there needs to be more of a balance there. I
think they went too far. There, you know, there's good pros and cons with everything. But But yeah, you
know, what I found interesting with that story that you're talking about Phil is, is the prosecutors were
holding the parents liable for the actions of their son, which I think is appropriate. If if you've got kids,
and they and they get, and they do something with, you know, guns in your house, they're not locked
up, or they're not trained properly, you got to lock them up. And I think some of that liability needs to be
passed along, so that people are a little more responsible, because I don't think these folks are
responsible, like they, when I was a kid growing up, everybody had a gun, and we all went hunting and
fishing. And everybody took hunter safety. And we learned how to use a gun with responsibility and
everything and I don't think that's happening anymore. So to be honest,
54:04
when I was a kid, it was such such reverence almost for a weapon. You never swept it past a person
even if you know for me, even if it's a shotgun that's that's that's cracked open and over your shoulder.
You still never turn around and let that barrel pass anybody, even though it's the gun is inoperable. I
mean, it was literally there were rules that you follow. I think, you know, we grew up in a different time
kids now have grown up on these. I hate to blame, you know, these violent video games and all that.

- 16 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

But guns are not just a fun thing you play with on TV and you shoot a bunch of people can't help but
think that's part of
54:46
it now. Whoa, what was your gonna say, Dave?
54:50
I was gonna say My daughter lives in Michigan. We're visiting her December 3 up about half of the
parents in fact Yeah, He's not even like 16 1415
55:07
so I can see my four year old at McDonald's yesterday. He was he was told by his bad cop. Oh,
55:23
yeah, make national news.
55:25
Yeah, did that. Wow.
55:28
Utah Utah always makes the news on things like that people the rest of the country must you shake
their head and go, Man, what's going on in Utah, but it just It surprises me that that a four year old kid, I
mean, supposedly the cop saw the gun being pointed, and the caucus probably like pushed that away.
Right where they can pull the trigger and shot went into the McDonald's or building, you know, but, man
oh, man. You know,
55:56
I haven't even heard that's the first I've heard of it. I'll have to look it up. Yeah, read read
56:02
it on. McDonald's down 70 7200. South. Like I don't know what it is just
56:13
go down here by Fort Union. No, no.
56:18
It's the one west of State Street on 7200. Okay. Wow. All right. A four year old four year old kid has the
strength. You know, somebody said even if this was a really small, lightweight, semi automatic
handgun, you know, just even have the strength to use that, you know, handgun is,
56:46
oh, I got a response. Why was
56:49

- 17 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

a loaded firearm even in the backseat of the car, or the kid was sitting.
56:55
You know, the guy Supposedly he was mad about his work getting, they got his order wrong. So he's
used, he was upset. And he Flyff he supposedly flashed the gun at the gal at the drive through it. So
she said, pull forward. And we'll get your word, right. And then he immediately called the police and
said this guy flashed a weapon. So he obviously took that loaded gun and threw it in the backseat with
this. Hey, I
57:23
told the kid to shoot the cop. Yeah.
57:27
I just wanted to give you a heads up so that I got a response back from the Utah Department of
Corrections about that tour of the new prison on March 30. So I guess that's just for elected like
legislators, but the lady there said that they will be having after that they will be conducting some other
tours. And I said, you know, we've got a lot of leaders in the community that aren't elected officials, but
would love to take a tour. And she said she would that we would have an opportunity to do that before
they open it. So I'll follow up on that. But it doesn't look like we can do it on the 30th. So
58:13
you're elected rock?
58:14
Oh, keep trying. Well, I'll keep trying to get us in there. I want to see it because I the pick from the
pictures I was they put a lot of money into that boy. So that'll be interesting. All right. Well, guys, if
there's nothing else do I have a motion to adjourn?
58:42
Motion to adjourn.
58:44
Okay, second. Okay. All right, guys. Well, then, we'll call it a night and we'll see you I guess next month
for the sandy Hills meeting. Okay. All right. Thanks. Thanks so much. Thanks, Renee. Bye. Sign out,
close up. Shut down.

- 18 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

