Central Wasatch Commission Statement Regarding the Tree Farm Open Air Mine in Parleys
Canyon
The Central Wasatch Commission (CWC) is an interlocal government whose Boards include the
Mayors jurisdictions include several municipalities and leaders of governmental service
providers in and adjacent to the Central Wasatch. The CWC also includes a 35 member
advisory stakeholders council representing economic, environmental, recreation, transportation,
and community interests. Core values and tenants of the Central Wasatch Commission include
preserving and protecting the critical resources of the Central Wasatch.
The proposed Tree Farm open air mining site lies within the geographic boundaries and area of
great interest for the CWC. The member jurisdictions of the CWC are concerned about the
negative impacts on the air quality, watershed, visual quality visitor experience, flora and fauna
of an open air mine in Parleys Canyon. The fugitive dust emissions from proposed mining uses
in Parleys Canyon have the potential to contaminate the Salt Lake City regional watershed and
neighboring reservoirs posing a considerable threat to the health, safety, and general welfare of
Salt Lake valley residents and water users. The added demand for water usage at the mine will
put a greater strain on the water system and deliver it to water customers. Additional mining
emission will have a negative impact on the regional air quality by adding harmful particulates to
the air shed. Massive landscapes and ecosystems can potentially be harmed, impacting the
native wildlife. The overall potential negative impacts from this project would lead to
deterioration of a prominent gateway in to the Sale Lake Valley and on the quality of life to the
region.
The CWC opposes such a large-scale open air mine and supports future policy that will
minimize or eliminate future mining activities in the Central Wasatch that have a negative impact
on the quality of life. A policy direction the CWC recommends to Salt Lake County is to remove
mining in the FCOZ through the proposed amendment. This policy adjustment is a step in the
right direction to protect the Central Wasatch Mountains.

Commissioner Chris Robinson, Chair
Summit County Councilmember

Commissioner Erin Mendenhall, Co-Chair
Salt Lake City Mayor

Commissioner Jenny Wilson
Salt Lake County Mayor

Commissioner Mike Weichers
Cottonwood Heights Mayor

Commissioner Jeff Silvestrini
Millcreek Mayor

Commissioner Monica Zoltanski
Sandy City Mayor

Commissioner Jim Bradley
Salt Lake County Councilmember

Commissioner Max Doilney
Park City Councilmember

Commissioner Roger Bourke
Town of Alta Mayor

Commissioner Dan Knopp
Town of Brighton Mayor

Ex Oficio Carolton Christensen
Utah Transit Authority Trustee

Ex Oficio Annalee Munsey
Metro Water Assistant General Manager

