From: Lou Dunham <maliklucius@gmail.com>
To: "Ms. Laurie Stringham" <LLStringham@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Fri, 01 Apr 2022 18:27:08 -0600
Importance: Normal

Dear Ms. Stringham,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
It is ridiculous that mining is still permitted as a conditional use of our treasured recreational land, especially
given the example of gravel pits and mine activity elsewhere in the valley, which has resulted in poisoned
groundwater and hazardous tailing materials throughout areas such as Magna and Bluffdale.
The insistence on the part of Tree Farm LLC that such development is needed is ridiculous, frivolous, and
reveals a disgusting disregard for the safety of our communities and the health of future generations. To this end,
I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County
Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing;
mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an
operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the
Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone." Indeed, I hope that in the future, additional restrictions may be
considered.
We are a State of staggering beauty and profound ecological diversity. Our beautiful mountains and rivers are a
blessing few other areas of the country can claim. Further industrialization of the Wasatch’s land and water
resources is inconsistent with the values of our communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of
life. I applaud this proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon
and value the Wasatch Range.
Thank you.
Sincerely,
Lou Dunham
2140 E Atkin Ave
Salt Lake City, UT 84109

