From: Carmelle Wilde <carmellewilde@gmail.com>
To: "Ms. Laurie Stringham" <LLStringham@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Sat, 02 Apr 2022 14:36:34 -0600
Importance: Normal

Dear Ms. Stringham,
Carmelle M. Wilde
PO Box 520002
SLC, UT 84152
(801) 300-0496, carmellewilde@gmai
Dear Mayor Wilson and Council Members,
Tree Farm, LLC is in the process of trying to pass a proposal to begin a mining operation adjacent to Mt Aire
Canyon and needs to be stopped! (Entity #11509771-0160, Owner: Jesse Lassley.)
Tree Farm, LLC submitted a proposal that did not even mention the existence of a residential area (Mt. Aire
Canyon), where families and cabin dwellers live and recreate year-round, located 0.25 miles away from the
proposed quarry line (the equivalent of two city blocks). This is an absolutely unethical and dishonest business
practice. (Jesse Lassley sold his property in Mt. Aire recently and is well aware of the community here in the
canyon!)
Limestone mining should not be permitted in such close proximity to a canyon where family cabins and
recreational property are used on a daily basis year-round. The impact this will have on the environment and the
health of residents would be detrimental.
Limestone quarrying, which would include drilling, crushing, and transportation of the rock would create dust.
Air currents, winds and moisture would surely carry this dust easily to our homes in Mt. Aire Canyon and would
negatively impact the quality of living and health for all residents. Small dust particles may contain respirable
crystalline silica that would damage the lungs and airways of residents and children here in the canyon. Exposure
to this dust could lead to lung cancer, silicosis, kidney, and pulmonary diseases.
According to the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, “Solid materials in the
form of smoke, dust, and vapor generated during quarrying can usually suspend over a long distance in the air,
and particulate matter in the air is transported from the generation point to other far areas. If the quarries are
located in places where there is a living population, people living in the area will also be exposed to dust.
Environmental exposure to dust has been raised as an important issue to consider among populations living close
to quarries in different areas around the world. Previous studies found that people residing close to quarry sites
have a higher prevalence of respiratory symptoms compared to those not exposed to quarry dust. Specific
reported adverse health effects by people who reside nearby quarry sites include nasal infection, cough, and
asthma. Additionally, a study investigated how the ecosystem and residents were possibly affected by nearby
quarry activity found out that the frequency of certain symptoms such as cough, sneezing, and asthma, and
illnesses have increased after quarry activities in the area began.”
(https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7504702/)
My family of four lives the equivalent of two city blocks and this mine will put us and our neighbors in danger.
Please stop this mine and save the health for people in Mt. Aire.

Regards,
Carmelle
Sincerely,
Carmelle Wilde
Po box 520002
Slc, UT 84152

