From: "The McGuire Family" <jasonmcguire@comcast.net>
To: "Jenny Wilson" <JWilson@slco.org>
Subject: Proposed Parley's Canyon Quarry
Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2021 20:08:40 -0700
Importance: Normal

Dear Mayor Wilson,
Thank you for all that you do for our County. I serve with Mayor Ramsey on the South Jordan
City Council and she said this was the best way to contact you. My wife and I are contacting you
regarding the proposed Parley’s Canyon Quarry. We have family property and cabins in the
adjacent Mt. Aire Canyon. The Mt. Aire Canyon is a very narrow canyon with a one lane road
and historic cabins that in some places scale the mountain side. The area is prone to
avalanches. Our property in particular has the remains of a historic cabin that was destroyed by
an avalanche many years ago. Each winter the canyon has at least one small avalanche. We
have grave concerns with how the blasting from the proposed mine will affect the avalanche
conditions in our canyon. We understand from the Salt Lake Tribune’s article that you also are
concerned with the impacts that such a business would have to Parley’s canyon. Per the Salt
Lake Tribune’s November 24th article, it states that “The mine would require a conditional use
permit from the county and would have to be reviewed for compliance with the county’s
Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zone ordinance.”
We are trying to understand how the county will be involved in the process of the potential
approval of the Tree Farm LLC. permit. Will the permit be issued solely by the Department
responsible for compliance? Will Tree Farm LLC. have to get your approval as mayor? Does
Tree Farm LLC. have the right to request a variance? Will the permit request go before the
County Council? Will there be opportunities for public input? Please help us to understand the
political process involved with this issue.
We really appreciate all that you do!
Sincerely,
Jason and Angela McGuire
South Jordan City, UT
(801) 703-7801

