Brent N. Bateman
Attorney at Law
brent.bateman@dentons.com
D 1+ (801) 375-6600

Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar P.C.
3301 N. Thanksgiving Way, Suite 400
Lehi, Utah 84043
United States
dentons.com

April 5, 2022
Via – councilwebex@slco.org
Salt Lake County Council
2001 South State Street N2-200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575
RE: Public Comment – Ordinance to Eliminate Mineral Extraction
Dear Salt Lake County Council:
I represent Tree Farm, LLC, and submit this comment on my client’s behalf.
I have made multiple efforts over the past several weeks to engage with Salt Lake County regarding the
proposed ordinance to eliminate mineral extraction and processing as a conditional use in the Forestry
and Recreation Zone. With the exception of some very summary and dismissive emails from County
Attorney Zach Shaw, my efforts have largely been ignored. Noting that this matter is again on the County
Council Agenda for today (April 5, 2022), I hereby submit this letter as my public comment for this
meeting.
This ordinance is blatantly contrary to Utah Code 17-41-402(6). This law prohibits adopting or initiating
proceedings to adopt any ordinance that would prohibit Critical Infrastructure Materials operations. As you
are aware, "Critical infrastructure materials" means sand, gravel, or rock aggregate. Utah Code 10-9a901(1). Although I have pointed this out, no one at the County has bothered to explain to me how this
ordinance complies with this state code section. My only guess to justify this ordinance is that it is styled
“an ordinance prohibiting mineral extraction” rather than prohibiting extraction of critical infrastructure
materials. However, this justification fails because the text of the ordinance expressly prohibits extraction
of “sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate.” Thus, where it was not prohibited before, this ordinance clearly
prohibits critical infrastructure materials. Thus, it is illegal.
This ordinance will affect the property rights of not only my client, but of many others. I hope that the
County will press pause and engage in some discussions about this matter. I further hope that it is not the
County’s conscious intention to disobey state law. Thank you for considering my comment.
Very truly yours,
DENTONS DURHAM JONES PINEGAR P.C.

Brent N. Bateman

Durham Jones & Pinegar ► LEAD Advogados ► Rattagan Macchiavello Arocena ► Jiménez de Aréchaga Viana & Brause ► Lee International ►
Kensington Swan ► Bingham Greenebaum ► Cohen & Grigsby ► Sayarh & Menjra ► Larraín Rencoret ► For more information on the firms that
have come together to form Dentons, go to dentons.com/legacyfirms
Dentons is an international legal practice providing client services worldwide through its member firms and affiliates. Please see dentons.com for Legal Notices.

SLC_5827020.1

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Scott Mastroianni
Council Webex
Prohibit Mining
Tuesday, April 5, 2022 1:09:18 PM

I am writing on behalf of Canyon Rim Academy, a local public Charter School located in
Millcreek, Utah just down from Parley's Canyon. We are extremely concerned for our
students. The wind blows severely through our playground and campus down from Parley
Canyons. On moderate air quality days, many of our students already need to remain indoors.
Any additional mining in that canyon would make it even worse for our students and we
would not like any additional risks. Wind gusts are higher than the proposed MPH threshold
currently proposed.
Thank you

Scott Mastroianni, Principal
Canyon Rim Academy
3005 S. 2900 E.
Millcreek, UT 84109
801-474-2066
Maximizing Academic Social and Emotional Potential

*************** IMPORTANT MESSAGE ***************
This message, including any attachments, may contain confidential information intended for
a specific individual and purpose, and is protected by law. If you are not the intended
recipient, delete this message, including from trash, and notify me by telephone or email.
If you are not the intended recipient, any distributions or copying of this message, or the
taking of any action based on its content is strictly prohibited.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Brenda Reiss-Brennan
Council Webex
Fwd: Comment Letter of Support for FCOZ Ordinance Revision
Tuesday, April 5, 2022 11:30:55 AM

Sorry first email did not go through. I hope you receive this one Thanks Brenda
---------- Forwarded message --------From: Brenda Reiss-Brennan <reissbrenda24@gmail.com>
Date: Tue, 5 Apr 2022 at 10:43
Subject: Comment Letter of Support for FCOZ Ordinance Revision
To: <councilwebx@slco.org>, Brenda Reiss-Brennan <reissbrenda24@gmail.com>

SL Council Zoning Amendment Meeting April 5, 2022 4:00 PM

Re Public Comment/Concern Letter:

Dear Mayor Wilson and Council Members,

Thank you to you and your Council Members for inviting our voices through our participation and letters of concern to your public hearing today
regarding the FCOZ Ordinance Revision.

Most importantly thank you for your swift and actionable leadership that has mobilized our community. It is our responsibility to work together as
citizens, leaders and officials to carefully evaluate and study all mining proposals and prioritize how these activities benefit or decimate the quality of
life of our citizens and what it will cost us and our natural environment over time.

Our agencies, citizen voices and advocacy groups are united with your Council in ‘protecting our abundant natural and precious resources’ and
opposing mining proposals such as the ‘Tree Farm Parley Gravel Pit’ that lack sufficient evidence and clarity that these operations would protect and
benefit the quality of life for our residents. We need rules and regulations that protect us from community growth opportunities that if operationalized
will have grave and lasting impact on the quality of our air, our greatly stressed water resources, our endangered wildlife and recreational open space
contributing to further wildfire hazards, noise pollution and further transportation congestion potentially greatly reducing access through a major
thoroughfair to our city and state.

Governor Cox in his January address to us all stated the current challenges we face as a community regarding our air, our water, our health and our
growth – and declared that “our goal should never be to grow for growths' sake, we must prioritize a quality of life that all Utah can enjoy”

Therefore, we need your strong leadership to build sustainable actions now.

I am proud and grateful to be a longtime citizen of SL County and humbled by my neighbors and our community and our collaborative unity that is
fighting to protect our connection to the beautiful natural environment that gives purpose to our quality of life here.  

Thank you for actionable purposeful leadership!

Brenda Reiss-Brennan, PhD, APRN
Salt Lake City Resident (46 years)
Mount Aire Community Property Owner
Utah Healthcare Provider (46 years)

NOTICE: This e-mail is for the sole use of the intended recipient and may contain confidential and privileged information. If you are not the intended
recipient, you are prohibited from reviewing, using, disclosing or distributing this e-mail or its contents. If you have received this e-mail in error, please
contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of this e-mail and its contents.

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Keith Brown
Council Webex
Parley"s Canyon Mine, Comments on the proposed mine.
Tuesday, April 5, 2022 4:40:22 PM

I am very strongly opposed to this mine for many reasons. These reasons include:
1) At my residence at 3147 S. 2800 E. I often experience large amounts of dust that comes out
of the canyon during mining activities. One of the great benefits of living near the canyon are
the delightful canyon breezes that often cool us in the evenings and at night. The mine often
fills the air with such high quantities of dust that the inside of our home is covered with dust
and dirt.
This activity often seems to increase late at night and early in the morning when any
government oversight is definitely absent. The current mining activity does not seem to fulfill
their current obligations to suppress the dust/dirt problem. A new mine would only make this
problem exponentially worse.
2) Increased truck traffic will definitely make the current traffic problems even worse.  
3) Truck traffic in the Canyon regularly violate the noise (Jake Brake usage) ordinance. This
activity will increase with more truck traffic from the mine.
4) I work in the heavy/highway construction industry with 34 years of experience with the
UDOT. I know that there are more than enough current gravel operations in the Salt Lake
Valley to fulfill the needs of the construction industry. One aspect of our geology and the
history of Lake Bonneville is that there are large gravel deposits located throughout the
region. There is no need to locate another mine of any size in a sensitive area such as Parley's
Canyon.
5) Any mining operation in this area will adversely affect the wildlife of the area including
Elk, Deer, Turkey, Grouse. These are only the protected game animals that I have listed. This
is critical winter habitat for these species.
PLEASE DO NOT ALLOW THIS MINING OPERATION TO EXPAND. PLEASE DO
ALL YOU CAN TO SHUT THIS OPERATION DOWN. IT DOES NOT BELONG IN THIS
CANYON.
Thank you,
Keith Brown
3147 S. 2800 E.
Millcreek, Ut 84109

