From: Michael Jurynec <mjurynec@gmail.com>
To: "Ms. Ann Granato" <agranato@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2022 14:56:26 -0600
Importance: Normal

Dear Ms. Granato,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air quality
and sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the economic future of our
state. To this end, I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt
Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon
Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing;
mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an
operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the
Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone."
I live less than 4 miles from the proposed mine and have several major health and nuisance concerns.
First, where is the water going to come from for dust mitigation? As we are often reminded by the State, we are
in a severe drought. This seems to be a rather wasteful use of a resource that we are trying to conserve. As
someone who suffers from asthma, I have complained many times about dust pollution and mud, rocks, and
debris on the highway from the current Parleys Canyon mine. I drive by that mine often and there is almost
always dust coming from the operation. How is this mine going to be any different? Even with mitigation, it will
still contribute particulate to the Valley’s already bad air. Have there been any environmental impact studies
completed?
It is noted in the application that there is going to be blasting on the property. As a nearby homeowner, is the
mining company going to guarantee that there will be no structural damage done to my house? Are there funds
set aside if this does happen? There was well documented evidence of structural damage from homeowners in
Arcadia Heights from blasting from a new housing development. Does the DNR take this into consideration?
Has there been any engineering done to ensure that nearby homeowners won’t be affected?
What guarantees are in place to ensure that there will be no leakage of toxic byproducts into the water table?
What about retention ponds? How will these be built to ensure that they will not rupture in the event of an
earthquake etc?
The proposed mine is very close (maybe a mile or so) from a major hiking trial (Grandeur Peak and Millcreek).
What are the assurances that air pollution isn’t going to affect individuals who use these trails?
Finally I would also like to know if the DNR collects and reports any conflict of interest data on these
applications? For example, have Mr and Mrs Lassley (or their LLCs) donated to any state or local politicians?
This information needs to be made public to ensure that there is no bias in the permitting process.
I hope the voices of concerned citizens will be taken seriously.
Sincerely,

Michael Jurynec
3671 Kaibab Cir
Salt Lake City, UT 84109

