From: Gregory Baptist <GBaptist@msd.utah.gov>
To: Tom Stephens <tstephen@xmission.com>
Cc: Tim Bywater <TBywater@slco.org>, Lupita McClenning <LMcClenning@msd.utah.gov>,
Melissa Anderson <MAnderson@msd.utah.gov>
Subject: RE: Mining claims in the FR zones?
Date: Thu, 13 Jan 2022 11:52:07 -0700
Importance: Normal

Tom,
The pending Ordinance will limit the development of New Mining Mineral Extractions with in the FR and other Forest
zones, is my understanding. There are current operations that will fall under a non-conforming use status due to the age
and already being in operation. These locations are subject to Salt Lake County Ordinances for any planned expansion or
modification to the existing permitted areas.
I am not an attorney and will not give out legal advice, I have looped in one of the County D.A’s who may choose to chime
in if applicable.
There are Patented Claims which are bound by Forest Service property, while the County does not have any jurisdiction on
Forest Service owned lands, the private “patented” property located within them is subject to the County Ordinances.
Respectfully,
Greg Baptist
From: Tom Stephens <tstephen@xmission.com>
Sent: Thursday, January 13, 2022 11:41 AM
To: Gregory Baptist <GBaptist@msd.utah.gov>
Subject: Mining claims in the FR zones?
Hi Greg,
Can you offer any insight into the following, given your years of experience at the County?
The Pending Ordinance draft will prohibit all mineral extraction within the FR zones. It would appear that most (or maybe
all) existing mining claims within Salt Lake County are located on Forest Service land, but are you aware of any valid
mining claims located on land not within the Forest Service jurisdiction – meaning they are located on land that is subject
to Salt Lake County jurisdiction and therefore subject to county zoning ordinances?
And a related question, more of a legal question, but you might have an answer: my understanding is that in some
manner a “patented” mining claim has the same status as private property. We know that the local ski resorts have
bought a number of mining claims over the years in order to increase the acreage that they “own”, as opposed to the land
being administered by the Forest Service. So the question is: if “patented mining claim” land is now private property, is
this private property subject to Salt Lake County jurisdiction, even if it is surrounded by Forest Service land?
I am wondering if the owners of mining claims located within Salt Lake County’s jurisdiction (and located in the FR zones)
will be in opposition to the pending ordinance changes.
Feel free to call to discuss.
Tom

385-695-9876 cell

