From: "Richard Snelgrove" <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
To: "Jan Hemming" <hemmingjan@gmail.com>
Subject: RE: Opposition to Parley's Canyon "Tree Farm" mine
Date: Wed, 16 Feb 2022 11:07:23 -0700
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png; image002.png

Dear Jay:
Thanks for your email below. It is the involved citizen to makes this country work.
Please know that I agree with you. The Salt Lake County Mayor and Council unanimously oppose the proposed quarry. To
this end, we have set in motion a new ordinance that would ban such projects.
Hopefully, the final adoption of the ordinance in a few weeks will put an end to the proposal.
Thanks,
Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large
From: Jan Hemming <hemmingjan@gmail.com>
Sent: Wednesday, February 16, 2022 7:39 AM
To: Wendy Gurr <WGurr@msd.utah.gov>; Laurie L. Stringham <LLStringham@slco.org>; Richard Snelgrove
<RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Opposition to Parley's Canyon "Tree Farm" mine
Dear Salt Lake County Planning Commission:

I hope that common sense prevails and your Division denies the permit of the Tree Farm LLC to deface and destroy
precious canyon lands in Parley’s Canyon for the purpose of removing 1.1 billion tons of limestone. (See screen shot of
image taken from the permit application:)

Table 106.10-1. Material Quantities.
Material
Topsoil
Limestone

r Attributes
Trace to 3 ft deep
in valleys

I Volume (cy)

Bulk tons

- 100,000

---

498 million

1.1billion

Also, please take a good close look at the current topography and then what will happen to this beautiful, natural
mountainous hillside when the Tree Farm takes blasting devices and mining tools to remove land across 623 acres:

None of their plans to “recover” this pristine wilderness after it has been destroyed will ever bring it back to its current
and original state. It will be lost forever. Please do not let this happen to one of Salt Lake’s and Utah’s treasured canyon
lands.
The reports about damage to wildlife, big game, birds, vegetation and forests are also alarming. A golden eagle nest
resides on this proposed mining site. Two endangered species will be harmed: the Canadian Lynx and the Western
yellow-billed Cuckoo. It is also suitable habitat for the Northern Goshawk.
Note this disturbing statement about elk in the application: "Due to the size of the project and overlap with crucial
winter habitat, effects from habitat loss and/or habitat fragmentation could be measurable at the population level.”
Others threatened include the black bear, moose, mule deer, and mountain lion.
The project is part of Salt Lake’s watershed. Parley’s Creek flows to the bottom of this site at the canyon floor and there
are ephemeral streams that will be effected at higher elevations. Hundreds of acres of pristine woodlands and forests —
oak, maple and deciduous tree varieties, will be gone.
Imagine driving through Parley’s Canyon on a spring, summer or autumn day and seeing a portion of the hillside being
actively removed by the greedy folks at “Tree Farm.” The area targeted for mining will be clearly seen from I-80 as cars
travel up and down the canyon. Bravo to the Salt Lake County Commissioners for opposing this project. Please take the
same action.
Think of the elevation ranges that will be impacted — 5,250 to 7,560 feet. These are grand peaks and steep hillsides
that deserve to be protected and preserved, not destroyed and defaced.
Respectfully,

Janet (Jan) Hemming
Chair
Yalecrest Neighborhood Council

