From: "Richard Snelgrove" <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
To: "S.D. Williams" <sdwilli@gmail.com>
Bcc: "rhsnelgrove@gmail.com" <rhsnelgrove@gmail.com>
Subject: RE: Tree Farm LLC possible change in tactics.
Date: Tue, 15 Mar 2022 12:51:53 -0600
Importance: Normal

Hi Scott:
Thank you for reaching out to me on this issue. I too am deeply concerned about the possibility of a quarry on this site.
For this reason, I along with my fellow Council members, voted for the ordinance as proposed by the Mayor that would
stop activity on the site. With reference to your email below, please know that I was made aware a few minutes ago that
the Mayor’s office is working with our legal counsel to properly craft a response which, hopefully, will be forthcoming in a
day or two.
Sincerely,
Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-large
From: S.D. Williams <sdwilli@gmail.com>
Sent: Tuesday, March 15, 2022 9:45 AM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>; Scott Baird <SBaird@slco.org>; Zachary Shaw <ZShaw@slco.org>
Subject: Tree Farm LLC possible change in tactics.
As a cabin owner in Mt Aire Canyon and member of the ad hoc group saveparleys.org, working to stop the proposed
gravel pit in Parleys Canyon, I’ve heard from multiple sources that Tree Farm LLC may now be planning to withdraw their
Large Mining Operation NOI at DOGM. This would eliminate DOGM’s justification for not reviewing the Small Mining
Operation (SMO) NOI, resolve Tree Farm’s appeal before the DOGM board without a hearing, and trigger a 15 day
approval process at DOGM, without public input, for the SMO.
It also appears from their filings that Tree Farm believes they have a vested mining right on the property and that they
don’t require a conditional use permit from the county before proceeding with excavation work. I assume, were that to
occur, the county could impose a stop work order while clarifying the vested mining right issue in the courts.
An approved SMO permit from DOGM might also influence the decision of the Division of Water Rights regarding Tree
Farm’s request for a stream alteration permit.
If we observe preparations for or actual earth moving activity on the site, who should we contact at the county to assure a
rapid response?
Thanks for your work on this issue,
Scott Williams.

