LUCC BOARD MEETING MINUTES/TRANSCRIPTS
JANUARY 25, 2022

220125_003
Tue, 2/22 10:35AM • 1:21:03
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
msd, gravel pit, muffler, people, county, decibel meter, tim, year, oem, meetings, canyon, gravel, quiet,
catalytic converter, happening, sound, loud, buy, request, aftermarket
00:01
All right, welcome. And we'll get down here to I guess we'll get right into public public comment. Does
anyone have anything that they are having issues with or want to comment on?
00:22
I guess I'm not the members of the public. Does that include us?
00:25
Yes. That's public comment.
00:29
Yeah, I commented last time about a mystery project and granite and the mystery has been solved. So
there were some people, multiple people are reporting that a new sidewalk was going in on a street
where we had never even heard of a project. You know, it's like suddenly, the county's putting in the
sidewalk where nobody even talked about it before. It turns out that was not true. It's fake news. The
sidewalk is going in is one that's been in the works for years. And then it had been at our projects
meeting we had last spring Oh, Madeline went over and said, Yeah, this sidewalk is finally ready to go.
We'll do the engineering this summer. And then we're gonna so that's the one they're doing is the one
that they've been playing on a different street. And, but it's has a 90 degree intersection with the other
road and people sidewalks just wraps around the corner, just barely enough for them to have like a little
wheelchair around, which I think is required by code. But some people interpreted that to mean that
they're going to be doing the sidewalk along the other streets. So anyway, everything's good.
01:37
Okay, now we, yeah, we had a similar situation where cones went up, and it was actually Google Fiber
going in, so keep an eye out for that too. That's probably going to be coming up your way too. Yep.
Anything else guys? Okay, um, so the sandy Hills had our steering committee meeting on
transportation. And we were introduced to several people. Nikki navio, from Wasatch Front Regional
Council, and I can forward her information on to you guys. So you know, if there's any input that you
want to do, she's the gal that is working with the communities for the Wasatch Front Regional Council.
It's Nikki navio. And we also met Angelo cola palestino. He's with the Salt Lake County Parks and Rec,

-1-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

if you have any Parks and Rec issues. His name's Angelo Kelsey now, and then Patrick Leary is now
over. He's one of the directors of Parks and Rec at Salt Lake County. And I think most folks know
Patrick, so you can contact him as well. Madeleine has left engineering and she's now working for
Parks and Rec. And who took her place is Shayne Ellis, e LL. I S and he's the he took Madeline's place
in Salt Lake County engineering. A gentleman we met with with UTA his name was Alex build bi e LM.
And he's doing the community stuff for Uta. And they're they're working currently on a master plan right
now. Master transportation plan for Uta, so I'll try to get all their contact info. Some of these guys. I
didn't get their emails and stuff, but I'll get it to you guys. And then Charles Allen, he's with Uta, and he
does travel wise, we did have a lot of complaints about public transportation out in the southeast area.
In our meeting, and it you know, the conversation came up that I think public transportation 40 years
ago was better out here in the southeast area than it is now. So it's just not not too good. So I I'll get
that info to you guys so that you can reach out to them. Is there any other public comment?
04:44
So Ron, we're having our public transportation meeting tomorrow night. Now that we've been meeting
some of these people? Yeah. I'm glad you mentioned them.
04:55
Yeah. If if I've tried to reach out I'll try to reach reach out again. But if you're meeting them tomorrow
and you get their contact info, if you could pass it along, that would be great.
05:08
Okay, I'll try and do that. Okay. Who is your planner that's running your general plan?
05:14
It's Kayla.
05:16
I wish we had her. Yeah,
05:18
she's pretty amazing.
05:20
She's amazing. We, we started with her.
05:28
So I've talked to also talk to some of the MSD board or mayors, I guess. And they want the
unincorporated to send somebody on a regular basis to their MSD meetings. And I think if we can get at
least three people, maybe four, we could. Somebody could always be at those meetings. I mean, I
know, it's a lot of meetings. And after a while, just you know, it gets, you start getting burned out and
stuff. But if we could switch it up, if you guys would be interested in doing that, that would be great. Just
let me know, and I'm going to try to attend them. And, and then see if I can't get a few other guys to, if I
can't make it if someone else can make it. That would be great. Because I think from what I've heard

-2-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

from these mayors, they're like, We need you guys to come to our MSD meetings, and tell us what you
need and what's going on so that they can make the right decisions and stuff. So
06:32
on that run, you know, flurry string and was going to those? Isn't she our ACIAR? Representative on
the MSD? Or is that a theater?
06:41
So Laurie string them is? And you know, and that's the thing is, is that was one of the points. I mean,
there's a lot of stuff that was came up in our conversation, but that was one of them that she's not
coming to the Leq meetings. So we need to go to the MSD meetings and let them know that, you know,
we we need a voice. So
07:04
the question is, now my understanding is Bob Barker is no longer the executive director there.
07:11
That's correct. So Brian Hart cells taken over a lot of those roles, but they've got a new general
manager. And I guess this lady, I forgot her name, but she stepped in Dino hours. Yeah. So I guess she
came from she was she the finance director and stepped over? Okay, so she really knows her stuff.
And she's cleaning up. I think she's really cleaning up, you know. So, I think the MSD is looking at more
of an independent district type thing that they, you know, I think, the county, they're trying, there's,
there's lots lots of money. And I didn't know I kind of knew this, but I wasn't sure but we're spending lots
of money on things that probably we could save a lot of money on, on things is so they're looking at
ways to save money, and be be independent and make it make their own decisions. But you know,
08:20
is the new what's the what's her title again?
08:24
General, General Manager. Now?
08:28
She is she's been at MSD. Previously, for years. Yeah. Okay, good. Okay. So she has some
experience then with the institution.
08:39
I think, from what I understood, she worked up in Summit County or something like that. Am I do you
know, Barbara?
08:49
I think you're right. Yes. She was over at Summit County for years. In their financial management,
08:57

-3-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

right. So yeah, I think she knows her stuff. So yep. Other than that, I think I we've talked about starting
up we're talking about starting up a 501 C three, and I think I'm going to start putting that together and
and then presenting that to the different or different community councils and and see if you guys are
interested in doing that. It wouldn't be hard to set up it is going to take a little bit of work to run it you
know, so we'll need some members to help with that. But you know, I don't you can make it a lot of
work. I don't think we we need to really do that but we can raise a lot of money through it I think and
and it shouldn't be that difficult, but I'll draft that up the bylaws and incorporation documents. And if you
guys are okay with that, we'll we'll get that going and, and get it all set up. Is there any questions on
that? Or anything that we've talked about?
10:07
I just have one other subject. That, yes, if we didn't have a nonprofit, we could use it for mailings as
well, which is what I've used for Utah neighborhoods.
10:22
You know, just to let you know, so this other nonprofit that I sit on, it's a 501. C three, we did get our
mailing permit, right for to your tax exempt mailing permit the name. So you basically you get, I think,
your mailing stuff at a fraction of the cost, I want to say 13 cents. Does that sound right?
10:50
A few years ago was 12 cents. Yeah, I think
10:53
it's 13. So but here's the thing is we paid for that we filled out all the paperwork, we got it all, and we
actually obtained it. But then I found out that the print shop we use, they could use our tax exempt bulk
mailing permit number. But when we added it up, they have their own. And rather than use ours,
because there's a fee, you pay every year for that. And they already pay for it. And so we added up that
we use their bulk mailing permit, and it costs us it already costs us nine cents per mailing. So we have
the capability of using our our tax exempt permit. But we're actually saving four cents per mailing by
just using there's so printer, it's printing Express, and it's down there by the cemetery on seventh east
and 90 of South. And the owner's name is Beth. And I'm telling you they've done an amazing job for us
for so long. And you just can't beat them and they they'll they do all the print ups and they fix everything
for you. And they do all your your mailings and everything and printing express what's out
12:26
there, they set up your debate. Yeah,
12:29
yeah, Matt down there. He sets it all up. I mean, I we do the best we can, but he just makes everything
perfect. And I haven't found anyone to be better than those guys. And it's just a small shop, though. But
it's next to that 711 to the south. So yeah, just to let you know, we went through that whole thing and
found out that these guys can do it cheaper anyway, so um, let's see. Other than that. Did you guys I
sent the minutes out. Um, do we have a motion to accept the minutes?

-4-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

13:14
Do we accept the minutes from the previous meeting?
13:18
Okay, great. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Okay, that motion carries. Um, it doesn't look like
Lisa is here with us. I'm kind of I wanted to ask her about who's taking Jocelyn place, but it doesn't look
like I'll reach out to her again and find out. But oh,
13:48
yeah. What are they gonna? Or when do we start participating with the MSD? Cuz I think that is a huge
step.
13:57
So the MSD I think they meet tomorrow night, actually, they meet the second Wednesday of every night
at 6pm. And it's virtual. So if you go to the MSDN website, you can request that you can find and well, I
bet I get those notifications. Do you want me to just pass those on to you guys?
14:25
I think, you know, I think there's somebody should probably attend to these wonderful they will allow us
to, to participate. Does that mean we hold a position on the MSD? Like,
14:37
no, they have public comment and they are they really want or if we're having issues like I I told I told I
talked to a few folks from the MSD and I and I you know I I think the MSD is doing a great job and really
kind of disappointed in County engineering in some areas like when we Ask for a stop sign. They would
rather spend $10,000 doing a study and then come back and say, Oh, you don't need a stop sign. And
it's just common sense for us to have a stop sign there. And they could have put 10 Stop signs up
around the neighborhood for that $10,000. They spent. And the MSD wasn't aware that this is what was
happening. The other thing was the county spent $75,000 on studies for 13th. East and galaxy. And
they haven't done anything. Wow. Yeah. $75,000 on studies. So
15:44
that's like the Sudoku. See?
15:46
Yeah. Well, and that's the thing is we I think in the MST wasn't aware that this was what was
happening. So it's like we had a petition with 100 signatures, we had pictures and everything. And we
had studies done on it already. And but yeah, they just, I don't know.
16:07
What was the study about?
16:09

-5-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

It was a four. So right there on 13th. East and galaxy, it's up on the hill, just north of Pebble Brook golf
course. There's an island that a median, that planter median that goes up from the golf course, up the
hill, and there's a galaxy drive is on the east side net, it's a feeder street that comes out to 13th East.
And people want to take a left hand turn, and they have to go around that that planter median. And
what's happening is there's a lot of like, really bad issues with that intersection. One is that people
speeding heading north on 13th, it's a hill. And if you're taking a left hand turn, all the sudden that car
pops up over the hill. And we've had collisions right there. And so we were trying to get them to remove
the planter and put or, you know, put an intersection light up right there. And they just weren't doing
that. So. But other than that, I mean, it. I you know, I think the folks know, it's an easy fix, but there's
just I don't know, what's, there's something hung up there. So the MSD said, you know, they were like,
gotta bring that to the MSD. And let us look into it. And so
17:39
I kind of liked the idea of maybe taking turns showing up at these meetings, we're just on an as needed
basis, if the Community Council has an issue, going straight to MSD. In theory, the way it was
supposed to work is that there was going to be an at large member of the county council would naugus
and have to be at large any member of the county council would be assigned to represent the
unincorporated islands on the MSD board. Right. Ramy worked out?
18:08
I think, I think, um, what we so that was the You're right. And I think what we need to do is, well, what I
was told to do is come to the MSD and complain that we don't have a representative coming to the low
the luck meetings. And that we we need that. So
18:28
the question is, does the representative guide? You know, we noticed she hasn't been attending what
meetings for a while. But does she attend the MSD board meetings? Because she actually has a voting
seat on the board of the MSD.
18:39
Right? Yeah. I
18:42
like we you and I cannot vote on the MSD board. We can give public comment that Laurie, as I
understand it, actually has voting rights on the MSD. Board. Right.
18:51
And so from what I understand is she's leaning more toward current issues. So currents actually has
two votes, because they've got the current mayor. And now you've got a representative. And that large
council member that's supposed to represent represent the unincorporated on the MSD. And now
they're just kind of collaborating together to just get turns issues finished. So
19:20

-6-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

I see. So I guess the real question is, does she still actually show up and sit at the table as a board
member during these meetings?
19:29
From from? Yeah, from what I understand she is she's going to the MSD meetings, but not you know.
So,
19:38
but capacity to represent us.
19:41
Yeah, and that's, I guess we've got to be the squeaky will or we're not going to get any grease. So
another thing I noticed is the counties kind of shutting things down in a way that they're locking things
out. that. So I went online to look for the employee directory, and they've removed it from the county
website. So, um, I've talked to a few guys. And if you guys are okay, I'd like to maybe I'd like to present
this to the county council, I don't know if or even the mayor, I don't know if the mayor even knows this,
but, or if it was done on purpose, but I would like to entertain a motion to do a grammar request for all a
list or a directory of all county employee names, emails and phone numbers at their at the county so
that the public can have access to that. And then just bring it to the attention with that Gramma request.
I think that would be a great way to bring that to their attention that, because if you go to every city, I
don't know any city that removes their employee directory list, so that you can't reach out to people. I
don't know if it was a mistake, or I don't know. But the Salt Lake County website does not have an
employee directory contact list they used to, but they used to, but I haven't looked recently. Yeah, they
don't they took it down. Wow. And I don't know if that was an accident, or if it was on purpose. But I
think there's I, you know, I think the best way to do that is just to do a grammar request. And I'm sure
through that grammar request, that they're going to come out and say, Oh, why was this taken down?
You know, it needs to go back up? Because, you know, I think that transparency and openness needs
to be there.
21:55
cost us something? Nope. Just to get a grant?
22:00
No. I mean, it, it, it everything's done. I've done a couple now in the last couple of months. And I mean,
if we're doing I think the grammar, the state laws on grammar is if it exceeds a certain amount of
money, or like so fast to print out documents that I think the threshold it's pretty high, it's like $150 worth
of printing documents, you know, and we'll never I mean, just a directory wouldn't cost that. And plus,
they probably have it electronically. But if and that's if it's something to do with you personally. But if it's
public, they cannot charge you for it. So this is a public request for the public. It's not a personal issue
or anything like that. So
22:59
I prefer that they put it on the website. Yeah. But my concern is awesome. Don't put the email on the
website they'll put to contact then you have to enter an outlook page or something.

-7-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

23:15
Yeah, go to Salt Lake City's website, boy, you can find everything about everybody. There it's it's like
the county just shut everything down. And closed. Closed everything out. Like, they don't want no one
to, to, to know anything. It's bizarre. I don't get it, you know, so, it. I know, I remember back when Peter
Corinne was mayor, boy, he he made sure that everything was open and everything was transparent.
And and then with Ben, it kind of went down a little bit, but now it's gone. Everything's gone. So I don't
know why. But I really I honestly, if it's political, or whatever it is. I don't know what it is. But it shouldn't
be that way. Would would? Would anyone. Go ahead, Tim.
24:13
So if you think you or any of us want to content, solid, no matter just to be accessible. We may not have
liked everything. All the decisions she made her and she gave to somebody right now. There's no way
to contact an engineer engineering.
24:32
No. No, they have like a main number that you can call and then if you call it nobody answers it and
nobody returns your call. Oh man, that's terrible. Yeah, it's really bad. That's terrible. So I think the only
way and I don't think the county council and maybe the mayor doesn't even him they might not might
not even be aware that this is what's going on. I don't know. There's been some
24:59
words stuff happening with county level because like, maybe a year ago or so, and we were wanting to
start doing our, well, when it has two general plans, as you probably know, cuz it's split into between
the mountainous planning district and solid county planning and zoning. And so the east half of grant
where I live, we were told well, you already have a master plan or what he called general plan in the
form of the Wasatch canyons General Plan, which we as residents in the canyon were never invited to
participate in or give input to. And so then the county is so when the West granite wanted to do its
general plan, which had not been updated in 30 years, the county came back says no, you've already
got a general plan. That's the Wasatch canyons general plan. And they kept saying that, and we had to
go and say, No, that only applies to the east part of granite, and we just kept getting a run around on it.
And so I'm not involved in that process since I live in East granite. But so the MSD has been helping us
with our with West ranch general plan. But I guess my point is, it was just really strange how the county
was just acting almost. I don't know. Reading weird.
26:12
Yeah. That's why I kind of think, you know, if we do a grammar request, and I'll present it to the, I would
say it would be the county recorders office, or it could be Sherry Swensons. Office, I'll see see both of
them. Well, I'll email both of them. And then CC, the entire county council and the mayor with the
grammar request. And I'm pretty sure that this will get turned around really fast. So I don't know, unless
we touched a nerve, and then some, it might strike an argument, but it won't be with us, because we're
just asking for contact information. So I'm not sure why they would do it like that.
27:03

-8-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

I mean, you know, when you think about it, I mean, we're kind of the only people we have to are truly
unincorporated. Right. So that means the county is our municipal government. Right. And so they
should at least listen to us when we make this kind of request. I think it's a very reasonable request.
27:21
Yeah, I think so. Um, so I can put it together. It's real simple. We just want the employee directory
names, emails and phone numbers for employees at the county. And, you know, maybe their position
to I think would be appropriate.
27:39
That's a good idea. And you would do
27:42
that? Yeah, I can do that. No problem. I can fill it out. And just, and I'll send it to you guys first. So you
can look at it beforehand, if you want. And, and you'll have a copy, you can save it. So if you ever need
to do it, you can erase whatever you need to and fill it in. For whatever reason you need to use it for but
yeah, fine. So if we got a motion and a second, we'll get that done.
28:13
I'll make a motion that we submit a grammar request as you have described.
28:18
We have a second. Okay. All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed?
28:31
Considered talking to our council members? Why does that happen?
28:39
No, I think I think I just I'm afraid I get the run around, and then I get shut down. So I figure if I do it the
legal way, they're gonna have a hard time shutting us down, though, they're gonna have to say they're
gonna have to say no. And if they say no, then they've got to come up with a reason why if, if they don't
want to post it on their website, I think that's their, I mean, they can do that. But we would have a list
and I would send that list to all Council chairs. So at least we have the list, you know, if they, and I
mean, I don't think they could stop us from even posting it on our own websites. So if, if they don't want
to do it, we can do it. So I don't know.
29:28
Maybe it's COVID really?
29:31
Well, they had to go in and take it all out. It wasn't
29:38
maybe their excuses that they're afraid to go get COVID by having a email address.

-9-

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

29:44
No. I know. It's just bizarre. So what I look at it as is, um, you know, in private business, they do that
and they'll If somebody else takes over, sometimes they'll they'll just shut it down and only give you
what information you need. And that's it. And it allows them more control. And to me, I don't think that
that's the best way to run things, especially in government. So. But yeah, I'll get that done and taken
care of. Other than that, do you guys have any concerns? Yeah. Go ahead, Barbara.
30:35
Thank you. Well, for the fifth year in a row, we're working on the noise ordinance amendments, to have
mufflers extent, inspected at time of Emissions Inspection. So it's House Bill 72. And it's actually never
come out of committee today. But it looks like it might this year. So I would like to say, I would like to
resurrect your support for it. And as in past years, I'd say that, you know, the County Council's of
granite Sandy Hill. Well, they'll create white city currents Magna. All I've supported this in the past. So
hope that okay, it's being run by Representative Wheatley out of male Creek to the west, Westside Mill
Creek.
31:33
Do you have a bill number?
31:36
House Bill 72. Okay. The thing is the state of Utah solid county that many other cities and towns have
noise ordinances on their books, that thing is enforcement. We can't expect our police officers to get
down on their backs and their dirty cars, and inspect for illegal mufflers or illegal mufflers. Just so easy
at the time of inspections it just look for that little seal that says it's an approval. And so we see the fine
isn't much I think it's 25 bucks. And if it's a second year offense, I think it goes up to 40. But, you know,
if they have illegal levelers on there, they're gonna have to unwell to go through emissions of sections
and then weld them back in. So maybe it's a little bit of a Terran defined certainly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
32:43
We're good. This be anything involved with taking a decibel reading? If there is quiet but it's not
approved by whoever, when they get shut down for having an aftermarket bumper system that lets a
perfectly quiet workforce there have a decibel meter at the mall?
33:13
I think most of them have the decibel meters. And that would be like a compression test. That decibel
meters out on the roadway are not effective because of the ambient noise. And they'll always get
dismissed in court wasting police time and the time and the judges time. But yeah, if if you go in and get
a new muffler because your mufflers fail, we'll put in an aftermarket muffler on it, but it'll be approved by
the EPA OEM original equipment manufacturer.
33:55
Think I think I I'm hoping that you don't you're not confusing to two different things. So what a
compression test, what they do with your exhaust system is they literally plot while your car's running.

- 10 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

They, they can take a rag, and they can plug up the end of your exhaust system for a second. And if
you've got leaks, or there's holes, and it's really loud, noisy somewhere, then they can fail you. So that's
kind of what a compression test is. But I think what Tim's talking about is a decibel meter. So if you get
an aftermarket muffler some of those just idle or I mean it's funny because if you if you really step on it
in a certain way, the noise can just be deafening. And so I guess what Tim saying is it maybe doesn't
sound like they're gonna add the decibel meter into the legislation or they
34:57
know
35:00
So that may not resolve are all your issues I'm thinking.
35:06
Yeah. And Tim, also, and everybody, it does not apply to Motorcycles. Motorcycles don't have any
emissions or safety inspection. We're getting the death threats on originally when we started on this,
the motorcycle folks and they were nationals, people coming in and making these kinds of threats, we
have to take down a website, because, well, it happened 10 years ago, when Ben McAdams was in the
legislature who hasn't been introduced in any way she got death threats, she was a legislator from Mill
Creek. But gosh, Tim, this is helpful for me, because I might have to testify up there. I, usually when
you go in and get a master change, they'll put in an OEM and that's what again, costs 125 $275. But
the aftermarket modified mufflers are usually a little more expensive, man, they, they paid to have the
noise. And I have to admit, it is a three la metal sound for Harley, that some of these glass packs that
come up here just refer rate in your lack of trails. With those high enter, last,
36:43
I would say at some point, with electric vehicles coming through, that's gonna be a mute issue. At some
point anyway, but you're funny.
36:54
So that's why after, you know, this will be the sixth year that we've done it and I'm saying to myself, you
know, don't even care about it because we're gonna have electric
37:09
be moved or mute and
37:11
whenever, well, we'll keep an eye out for it for sure.
37:14
Okay, if it's okay, could I send you any updates on what's happening to it and if you care to respond to
a legislator, please do.
37:27

- 11 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

Sounds good. Okay, thanks, guys.
37:32
In the language of being a longtime automotive
37:39
Then do you know that there are mufflers out there that are equivalent to OEMs if that OEM is
designated by the EPA, and I just don't like to mention EPA at the legislature because they're so hostile
to
37:58
flow you know, you can get aftermarket mufflers for a lot cheaper than OEM, you can get them for way
more expensive than OEM didn't get them quieter than OEM you can get them rather than old so it
really I would concentrate so much on whether it's OEM or not because it's across the spectrum you
can have an aftermarket muffler system that's absolutely quiet as a as a whisper shock so the fact that
adapt to market changes that are relevant to the to the point that I would go after Josh systems that are
too loud and at that point there has to be a decibel meter in the shop and they have to run a car up to
you know higher RPM which they do anyway during a smoke test
38:56
okay so you're saying it would then require all the inspection stations to have a decibel
39:05
I don't know the way to effectively make that legislation meaningful.
39:15
You know, they Well, so they, they do make mufflers that I mean, you can get the noise but then you
like if you're going out you want to take your vehicle up the canyon, you'd have to they come in different
different multiple parts to it. And you slip on the other part, and it's quiet it quiets it down to a regular
decibel noise. But I would you guys already have like muffler noise ordinance stuff at the mouth of the
canyon don't to like signs. No. Can you
39:56
occasionally occasionally the police will put out when they're selling I'd seen muffler check ahead
maybe once or twice a year. But you know, they aim at decibel meter at your car coming up and it's
useless. Core when
40:15
so can the the I guess it's the mountainous planning district. Can you guys can we pass local ordinance
or would it defy state legislation if we said, hey, in the mountains, you've got to control your muffler
noise because you know, you see on roads it says, you know, don't use engine brakes, or there's an
ordinance against loud noises is that not possible at the canyons?
40:49

- 12 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

It can be an EMI Ghana's mining district, as I understand it only pertains to land use regulation. I don't
know that they have any authority to pass ordinances about noise. I could be wrong. That might be
more of a county council thing and they are may already have an ordinance.
41:05
I think they do already have an ordinance. I'll send this out to you and it tells the name and place
numbers of Okay. county ordinance.
41:16
All right, I'll look into that because if there is an ordinance, maybe it just needs to be enforced better,
you know, with signage and some other stuff. I don't know.
41:27
That's enforcement is the problem Do I have your email you should do more emails I've got the rest of
these characters emails. So I'll send that out to you the talking points. But you know, from what you're
saying, Tim, it seems like this is not going to fly. So because of it
42:07
have to read if they're simply saying that for some reason, the first thing is watching the entire YouTube
segments of a market which would be aftermarket exhaust, which, like I said, can be absolutely just as
quiet as as OEM.
42:28
Just means that you might have to buy from the dealership or, you know, I don't know I just have to go
after the equipment that you have on your car, they should go whether it's loud or not,
42:48
that the markets really quiet. Some people want to just quieter and it comes from a lot of trucks come
with SUVs and cars. You know, the best cars come with a certain exhaust which can be really bad
when you sign up
43:14
for amazon and you can rely on the mufflers on Amazon. That mean you can buy some mufflers and for
25 bucks, but then you have to weld on everything. So,
43:29
most people if they have an exhaust, they want your car to have more of an exhaust note taking mostly
to Muslim shop, or many sort of automotive shops are very needy people do their own welding. Welding
and most people don't do it at home. They're relying upon automotive shops to take care of their
grasping.
44:00

- 13 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

The question is saying say go to Midas muffler to get your muffler replaced. They'll have a bunch of
different kinds of mufflers just hanging there in their inventory. So they're in their inventory. Are those
OEM mufflers are those aftermarket mufflers? Typically?
44:15
Those are OEM
44:18
because you'll be different brands like you know, there's a bunch of different brands that the hot rod
because it brings out the sound barrier.
44:32
Yeah, Randy, right. Well, yeah, they're aftermarket OEM. So their original equipment, manufactured
parts by the original, I mean, you can say it's aftermarket. But it's engineered to OEM standards, you
know. So
44:52
that's kind of a key point is is there a difference between genuine OEM and something that's different,
you know, I have a Nissan I take it into the muffler shop that replaced my muffler. I'm not sure it's
necessarily a Nissan manufactured Nissan branded muffler with the Nissan trademark on it may be
made by Midas Midas has their own right with their own in house muffler brand, but it's supposedly
equivalent to a Nissan OEM. But Is there proof of that if I looked at the mufflers or something on there
that says this is equivalent? Oh, yeah.
45:23
So I almost want to take a different spin with this. And it's almost like if there is ordinances on the books
that the county already, maybe we could look for signage with decibel readers, that you could put up
the canyon. So if you're going up, and you're too loud, all the sudden these red signs are flashing,
saying your vehicles way too loud to be coming up here. I mean, you could have something that does
like red, yellow, or green, yellow and red, you know, and, you know, I don't know how else you could do
it, you know?
46:01
Well, the thing is that the people who put those kinds of authors on their car, probably, we're not going
to do meaning turn. Maybe you're right. I mean, I just wonder if there's a way that we can enforce it
through the vehicle inspection program, in a way that's not unreasonable. And that's the real question is
going to be doctrine and vehicle protection, because then that means everybody has to go through that
once a year. Right. Yeah, the question is, can that be done in a way that's not unreasonable? So
46:30
Ron, I gotta tell you, that if you cannot get a speed sign on at 607 you sure as hell aren't going to get
You're too loud sign. Big Cottonwood Canyon is just not going to happen. I like it.
46:50

- 14 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

You know, and they probably go up the canyon just to set the signs off. You know? If you drive very
quiet, yeah, become
47:09
very loud. That's the same way with my pod, like in the summer even want to be quiet, especially on
say Saturday nights, there will sound like a racetrack and then half more than half of it is motorcycles
on, which can't even be regulated because they don't get strong. So it's a tough one. With the speed,
flashing noise flashing sign, all you have to do is as you're approaching that sign, you just went off on
your accelerator and you go by is fine as a mouse when you step on it. Like barber says, and push is
impossible. It's clearly impossible for something like this. And really, it has to start with decibel meters
at the end, going to put away your cart.
48:07
And I agree 100% With that champion. I definitely think it is a decibel item that you're talking about.
48:17
Okay, gosh, guys, thank you. It's also a slog thing, because if you have a aftermarket muffler and it's
loud, you can be remarketing particulates in the air
48:35
as long as you're lonely your catalytic converter is is in place and working on that. That's what that's do
is they they they put the converter in to go to the smoke shop and not 10 minutes later. So when they
get home that catalytic converter is back on their shelf in the garage. And so that's a number of you
know, there's a lot of people that do that. I won't say that either.
49:06
I think it is because I think the I don't know that the muffler actually does anything with regard to smog
reduction. Converter does. You have an opinion on that tip?
49:20
Yeah, no, the muffler doesn't do anything as far as as far as particular batch of catalytic converter.
49:31
Tim that's in my talking points, I bet are taken out. So I'm going to send the talking points to you to see
what you think. Okay, you
49:41
know, even if there's questions, or we will contact the shop that I've used in the past. For adjusters,
they're just experts and managers whenever yours is exhausted and adjust expert. He may even want
to chime in you You know, I don't know. I look over whatever you send me. And if there's, if I have any
doubt at all, I don't even ask him about other certain offers that can actually submit more envelopes.
Given that you would have a correct. So I mean, all we got to be like working I think 95%
50:27

- 15 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

Okay. Gosh, Tim, thank you. And the thing is, Moab has the same issues, a lot of recreation areas do
business in southern Utah. So we've got her on our on our list, too, but she would chime in. So income
from all over the state, I think rural areas aren't as concerned with this as some of the urban
50:50
areas. So Tim, isn't there, an aftermarket part that you can put on these like really loud exhaust, you
can actually stick it on the end to quiet your vehicle down?
51:04
Yeah, well, that's, that's called solid choice. Choices, once brands, but there are other brands, and then
you can even make your doing homemade. If you're, if you're a welder, and down to the design of
choice, and basically, it's your job to be, and they have it on boats also, you're exhausted, you're very
quiet. But as soon as you want to get loud, just let the switch and bypass exhaust bypass is probably
the catalytic converter and the muffler and everything.
51:38
So I'm pretty sure, yeah, I'm pretty sure there's some aftermarket parts that you could, I mean, so if
somebody is gonna go up the canyon, and their vehicles loud, you could say, oh, well, then you're
you're required to have this silencer on your, on your vehicle or something.
51:57
Solid choices is the only one I'm aware of. And that was the option that picture normally quiet, stock
sounding cars, it was a flip of the switch makes it super loud, like a racecar. Gotcha. choice, but it's not
designed to make your car quiet is designed to make your car really long whenever you want it to push
the button.
52:19
Yeah, let me look into that, Barbara. And if I find any products like that I can. Cuz I mean, you could
make that a requirement if you're going to come up the canyon that you have a silencer on your vehicle
or something? I don't know.
52:38
Would you ever consider testifying the legislature? Transportation Committee
52:44
title, I've learned that I'm not the expert, I was that I would be called to one of the one of the managers
of the shops that have been doing exhaust for years. These guys, these guys, they're not on the side of
really long exhaust because I think some of that they want people to have problems, you know,
exhausted.
53:07
Yeah. So it would be great. Maybe we could talk to him. We'd have one of them come up and talk with
us too.

- 16 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

53:17
I can almost guarantee that I could find a shop manager that well versed and has been doing with Josh
for years, but would probably love to approach
53:31
the left hand
53:33
piece. This is good. Okay, I'll send that out to you. What do you think? Thanks, guys.
53:42
One last thing. In unless there's anything else guys. Does anyone else have anything else? So um, so
John, John Tanner is not here. He'd brought up. I know, he brought it up with act. And he's talked to us
about it. I think he wants us to write a letter in opposition to the gravel pit up part of these Canyon. From
what I understand there was going to be a public hearing, or there was going to be a hearing that could
solicit public comment. And it was postponed I think it was today it was supposed to be today I think.
And then it got postponed till February 8 or something like that. I'll get the information but could I
entertain a motion to to write a letter in opposition to the gravel pit?
54:43
I would. I would not write a letter to in opposition to the gravel.
54:52
Do we have a second? Second that John? Okay. All in favor say aye. Aye. Hi. Okay, any opposed?
Okay, motion carries a lot.
55:05
Since it comes with effects or community directly with us. That's a slam dunk, they aren't going to let
them up in a gravel pit up there. So no, it is not a slam dunk. They're really pushing to do it. Any letter
that was sent should go to the letters do G, Department of Physical whatever, right? Yeah,
55:34
yeah, I sent you guys an email on some of that stuff. And some of the the owner of the that gravel pit
that are the land there, I think it it's interesting, the business that owns the land is called, like a tree farm
or something like that.
55:53
tree farms LLC. As they do that, just that just to try to trick in the public. Like they're gonna have a very
green business.
56:02
So yeah, we'll write a letter to that. I'm also I reached out to the University of Utah, geophysics
department and the geography department, and also to their undergraduate program there to see if
there was any college students or undergrads that want to do it, do some work in this area. And I got

- 17 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

some emails back. That so the email I asked them was hey, going forward, if we could reach out to
these gravel pit folks and reach out to Kennecott. What are your thoughts on using the the waste
product from Kennecott open pit mine to supplement gravel instead of opening up new gravel pits
around and I got some interesting responses. For one that the the director, the professor of Geophysics
at the EU wrote me back and said that he thought first he said, it's very interesting that you're reaching
out to us before anything's done. He says that never happens. And he said that a lot of that rock there
is toxic. And he wouldn't assume that a lot of that rock could be used as gravel product. But then he
sent it out to his peers. And I did get another response back that said that there are areas out there at
Kennecott that could be used for gravel. And you know, not all of it. But you know, if it's Kennecott
waste, why would we dig up another pit somewhere else in the valley, because they're already digging
and all up and, you know, but again, like, like Bill had mentioned is, you know, they're looking at cost.
And, you know, driving, they want to be as close as possible to any of these areas. But I, I, I want to
say almost, we're going to get to a point where we're going to be so developed out that nobody's going
to want a gravel pit in their backyard, you know, and one of the professors at the EU wrote me back
and said that, that a lot of that dust even from the gravel pit is toxic. It's not healthy for, for residents to
be breathing. So, you know, to have any of these gravel pits in in around the public areas. He says it's
really not a good, it's not good to have it around neighborhoods and public areas. So of course, I don't
know if I mean, you're talking multi multi millions of dollars in this industry, and these are minds. And it
would be very hard to you know, just we're trying to open up maybe, you know, it was a win win for
everybody, it would be a good solution. So we'll work I'll keep working on it. I did reach out to Utah
State University as well and I got some emails back so they may want to come to our meetings and and
talk to us more about this and and I'm going to reach out to see if I can't get some students involved
and maybe working on this as a project because and I did get some responses back that there may be
some students interested in this because of the The political what's happened at parleys with this
gravel pit? So I know BYU is down a few I haven't reached out to them. And they're working with
Kennecott on reclamation. So this may be something I'll reach out to them as well and see if we can't
get some interest involved in this because I know develops, developments going to continue. But again,
where is the gravel going to come from for concrete and all this stuff? I'm not sure. So. Yeah,
1:00:36
just for the record on the boat, I abstained from voting. I didn't say name, because I just don't know
enough about the party's Canyon issue to have an opinion on it. Okay. So still passes. I just abstained
on that. Number two, as I said before, like the pit down at the point of the mountain has been there for
decades. And it was not until relatively recently, the developers started building houses nearby. So I still
looked at it from the standpoint of, do we have any grounds to tell them to shut down their gravel pit?
Yeah, or even the residents who bought houses nearby, they're buying extra gravel pit, they know that.
But I think from the standpoint of looking down the road for future gravel pits, say that one gravel pit
gets mined out is the one in Sandy got mined out where the Quarry Hills is now. And it's now valuable
real estate, for retail, and residential. And the one over the mountain. The cottonwood is, I think getting
pretty close to mind out, they're going to use part of that for a parking right, supposedly for the
cottonwood. And I don't know, what else are we doing with it. So eventually, these gravel pits will be
kind of getting shut down in their land will be used for something else. So I think the way to look at it is
what can we do in the future? Can we maybe use Kennecott for that, in the future, as kind of, you know,
another option, I would kind of look at it from that angle, as opposed to try to badger these I don't know

- 18 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

we have any grounds to even get these existing gravel pits to shut down because they own that land
forever. Right? They're long before any houses were there. And it's an essential industry. So
1:02:13
and that's that's where I was kind of add, I apologize if I came across, like we wanted to shut them
down, I didn't want to shut them down, the existing ones are gonna run out. And but any new ones
probably shouldn't go into place. I think, given the fact that
1:02:30
the one of the mouth of Big Cottonwood Canyon, he plans to mine until the angle of repose will fail. He
has no intention of filling any of it. A few years ago, I was at planning commission meeting and they
asked him when when are you going to shut down? He said, Oh, maybe 12 years, but he really has no
intention of shutting down in this Walker family. And the other thing is that, it seems like the only way
we can get those gravel pits a little bit more controlled is through the air quality standards. I don't know
if you are familiar with the device called Purple air, where it's a citizen recording of what the air quality
as you can see it. EPA uses that for service uses that they use these little recorders all over the world
to see to monitor air quality.
1:03:34
The way I would approach that is over that's interesting about the graphic design, I was told that there
was already a you got it set aside money to buy ordered and gravel pit for
1:03:43
their team Alien Bases at 13 million to buy it. And
1:03:47
so what you're saying is that the owner is not willing to sell that.
1:03:51
Well. So he said, Gee, it's a shame that nobody asked me if I wanted to sell but do ask him first how
much he wants or, you know, it was not work transact. But he's declined.
1:04:07
Because the data I appreciate hearing that the purple air thing sounds interesting. The way I would look
at that is to do a differential measurement. Because how do you know how much shift the local
particulate is just general particulate from you know, smog in the valley people burning wood stoves,
cars, whatever versus coming from the pit. So you might want to have like a measuring station near the
gravel pit and have one a few miles away. So differentiate between just the general smog versus the
dust kicked up in the gravel pit?
1:04:37
Yeah. And I think people in mountain air and we'll Creek would benefit by buying a purple air I think
they're $120 to put on your deck. I've got one on my deck and I can see what the quality of areas
mccannon especially in the summer strangely we have great air in the winter. But in the summer, it's

- 19 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

the campfire smoke in the, in the campgrounds that are contributing to our poor air quality up here. So
we may go after the US Forest Service and say Hey, quit your camp grounds are doing to the air quality
itself and see how
1:05:23
interesting. Well, I mean, yeah, yeah.
1:05:27
Just to comment about the the 10 o'clock I think everybody needs to be a little careful with regard to
that because remember this Mechanica decides to shut down. That's going to be the landfill for the
millennium. And we'll need that grant. We'll need that dirt to backfill for each time we put a layer of
compost on there.
1:05:51
So you know, what's interesting is I was reading Kennecott plans. So they're their permits that they're
resubmitting to the state. And so they're now mining a precious metal that was never sought of and
they were throwing it out as a waste product. And it starts with an L it's like luminous are, it's a weird
name, I'll have to get it to you but are limited or something. But this mineral I guess is a precious metal
that that they're using now. So they put they permitted for that. They're also doing a new mine shaft.
And they're continuing on that. So these guys and then BYU is coming out doing reclamation on their
tailings, their waste that's thrown out on the hill, and they're actually these people are going out planting
trees and plants back. So I don't think I think what they're trying to do is just grow stuff over the top of it,
and, and reclaim it that way. So and I don't think Kennecott is going anywhere. I think they're going to
be here, from what I could see. Also I read somewhere that they want to do a new neighborhood
development. And I also read, there's a billionaire that wants to do another huge development. And I'm
not sure where it's going to be. It's either going to be in Salt Lake County in the unincorporated, or it's
going to be out by Eagle Mountain out west of Eagle Mountain. And he wants to do some kind of a new
town. Like a utopia. Neighbor. I mean, it's gonna have 40,000 residents or something. And
1:07:40
Gail Miller now is gonna get into real estate, she's gonna buy up the entire balance.
1:07:46
So well from what John was saying, Miller, so Daybreak got sold. And then John said that Miller, Gail
Miller bought some of Daybreak from Kennecott.
1:07:59
They're very much dead been chopped, of Daybreak, and another builder, they bought a builder and
they're gonna start building.
1:08:07
So yeah, there's a lot of development going on. I mean, we have to keep an eye on this stuff, I think. I
don't know how many more people you can smash into this valley. But and I don't know if we've got the
water for it. To be honest. We don't have the water now for what we've got. So

- 20 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

1:08:30
water, Ron, how is the what's the snowpack? Sound like?
1:08:37
I'm not sure Tim, do you have a report? Tim keeps an eye Oh, Billy, you got something on that.
1:08:45
We were above average after December because we had one of the best backs in December save.
Save this. Now, we've been in this constant, kind of a high pressure, almost inversion type situation. So
I think and of course, the base keeps dropping and dropping every time with every sunny day. So
we're, you know, afterwards, at night, 98 inches, I think I don't think they might have just gone over 100
inches. Now they're down to 80 something inches. So, you know, unless unless we get a really good
large snow, which marches since I'm just known as month of year. If it continues on this trend that
we've been in, it's just gonna be another year so I don't know it's impossible to predict.
1:09:39
And statewide is so bad in most places is above normal. I mean, the current snowpack, even though
we've had this dry January, we're still ahead of average ahead ahead of normal for this time of year.
But like Tim saying, you know, we'll need to start getting more precipitation pretty soon here to avoid
having another drought so and we could very well it's unpredictable.
1:10:00
Is there any projections as far as how it's going to do? Or are the reservoir is going to come back to
70% 80%? Is anybody mentioned that at all? Well, I think,
1:10:13
Phil, they're they're waiting to see what happens this spring. Because, you know, traditionally, March
can be the biggest storm up, up and up in little cottonwood anyway. So I think they're going to wait to
see what happens in March and April. We can add a lot of snow back to our mountains in March and
April. I think once we get past April into May, then they'll have a good idea of what the reservoirs is the
awesome storage reservoirs it just came up to 50%.
1:10:46
So Bill, when you're up flying around, what are you what are you seeing up there? Are you seeing a
good snowpack? Yeah, pretty
1:10:53
much.
1:10:55
Kind of our last big storm in the valley here was rain rather than snow. At the lower elevations. It was I
guess it was early January, never where we had kind of a rain storm. So that got rid of all the snow and
the valleys and the lower foothills. But the other day, I went behind the Wasatch, back in the Wasatch

- 21 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

and everything there is covered with snow still. And then the higher elevations look like they have you
know, a lot of snow for this time of year at least normal or above normal as the higher up you get. So
like Jim says it all just depends on what happens in the next two or three months. But if you recall last
fall, I can't remember who it was October, November, we had a dry spell and several weeks. And then
we have a lot of rain because I kept an eye on our spring and we had a lot of rain. And we had a dry
spell with a lot of rain dry spell and a lot of snow and now we're dry spells so hopefully maybe we'll
have another wet spells soon. Wow,
1:11:49
we can't live in our average smell fall. It's 500 inches a year. And right now I think we're 300 inches.
That's not the smell. Pat right now, but that's how much it's coming in. So we do need some more. And
Tim Morris, are you related to me Morris?
1:12:09
Yeah, that was my father. He passed away in 2015.
1:12:13
My husband used to ski with him all the time. Back in the day
1:12:20
Yeah, that's that's awesome. Heard that alto? Alto Snowbird usually when you're talking way back?
1:12:32
Oh, yeah. Yeah, that's when he was out there skiing.
1:12:42
Anyone to Snowbird, Sunday morning, wherever.
1:12:46
Ah, yeah. We're not here in the 70s. But they were young kids back then.
1:12:58
You know, he was he was, you know, he certainly was a little older than some of his peers. But, you
know, he, he had to go way back when he was assistant. So then he, he just kept more branching off
into just doing private instructions already was his own kind of the word wasn't really part of the ski
schools. And that continues on. He ran his own his own show, or whatever. He has a meeting 1000s of
people from around the world but they came here to just to see with me and also turn. People from
Europe and all over coming to Utah just this very moment.
1:13:49
My husband was one of them. Although he was just an unknown many diamonds. How old was he
when he passed away?
1:13:58

- 22 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

At 90, almost 90. He had Parkinson's for 20 something years. That target was larger than 25 years. It's
amazing that he lifted 89 cents that he was basically paralyzed. I left my job my job in San Diego and
sold everything to work after him for the rest of his life. So that, to me, is an honor to do that, you know,
to make a sacrifice to stay home and making breakfast lunch and dinner and
1:14:42
watch the backstory. Yeah, he was quite a guy. Thank you.
1:14:51
Well, guys, if there's nothing else, sure we do have a motion to adjourn.
1:14:57
I'll make a motion to adjourn.
1:15:01
Okay, guys. Alright, sounds good. Well, thanks, everybody. And oh, Barbara, we will get our act dues
and Utah neighborhood dues and all I'll get that and mail it to the, to the office that I Yeah. Are you guys
going into the office? Or not
1:15:24
anyone in the office occasionally addresses on the agenda. But you know, we have not had that
training for that training. And it sounds like it's going to be really interesting. We had to postpone it
because of COVID. Nobody was able to come up. It's gonna be mid to late February, but Lupita is
going to show us her new program that she's working on. What is it cities, something? Anyway, so
she'll be there and then it'll be mostly MS is all MSD presentations. So
1:16:05
and it'll probably be virtual, right.
1:16:10
That's why we cancelled that we hoped it could be in person. And I think they'll do some virtual too.
Okay. Yeah. That's when the big pushes for at the time. So we haven't been pushing it. So thank you,
Ron, for mentioning that.
1:16:28
Yeah, no, I'll get our checks done. And then the mail I'll just mail it to the office. That's a
1:16:35
good idea. Okay. Check the agenda for the address.
1:16:40
Okay. And we'll keep I
1:16:42

- 23 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

can send it to you.
1:16:44
I think I have x it hasn't changed has it? No. Okay. I heard that that we're having to pay rent now
though.
1:16:54
$6,000 a year.
1:16:57
Oh my gosh, see, and we used to get that for free. So I mean, it's getting ridiculous. But anyway, alright
guys. Well I guess we'll see you all next month I'll I'll get this stuff going. I've got a lot of work here to
do. So I'll work on it and see you guys next month.
1:17:21
Sounds good.
1:17:22
Okay, thanks everybody. Thanks Bill. Thanks Tim sorry sorry guys I'm just right okay, you're gonna
abstain from out that's fine and that's fine any new gravel pits i don't know i mean they bring in money
but now I do you
1:18:14
know when it's not so busy busy busy is some solutions think there's got to be better solutions maybe
okay
1:19:36
okay, no, right now it's actually Oh, my turn not tethering off No, it's I fly No I don't Well we haven't
taken so I'll send it out that's okay I got the impression maybe, but I'm not so well, you know it looks like
1:21:00
it

- 24 -

Transcribed by https://otter.ai

