From: Michael Shannon <michaelshannon2011@gmail.com>
To: "Mr. Richard Snelgrove" <rsnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2022 15:15:46 -0600
Importance: Normal

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Mayor Wilson and Council Members,
Please help us stop the proposed Tree Farm mine in Parley's Canyon! The second I heard about this proposed
mine several months ago, I was horrified. One reason is because I personally recreate regularly during all
seasons in the mid-canyon area where the mine would be and I know how filled the area is with wildlife, and
only a stones throw from Salt Lake City. Just like the rest of our canyons, Parley's provides a quick escape into
nature for Salt Lake County residents. It is no less important to protect than Millcreek Canyon and Big and Little
Cottonwood Canyons. In fact, it is a much closer haven than those canyons further south for much of Salt Lake
County's population. A new 600 acre mine in Parley's Canyon makes absolutely no sense from so many different
angles.
Wildlife is already struggling to deal with the massive amount of traffic on I-80 in the canyon. We've all seen the
dead moose and deer along the roadside. There are moose everywhere in that part of the canyon and they are
already struggling to deal with human impacts. There really should be another wildlife bridge lower in the
canyon near where the proposed mine would be, but that's another subject. The gravel pit that already exists
lower in the canyon emits a massive dust cloud on windy days, which are numerous, only adding to our air
quality problems. Who knows what's in that dust? A new mine will only add to the problems with dust, traffic,
pollution, noise and habitat destruction.
I support the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County
Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones to
prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete
batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock
aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone." I greatly applaud the
proposed revision of the ordinance and your willingness to stand up for wildlife, the open land and views so
valued by your constituents, reduce pollution, and help save this fragile and unique area from further
industrialization. We're all counting on your help! I don't know how else we can do it. Thank you very much for
your time and attention and for helping us to protect the future of the Wasatch Range.
Michael Shannon
25-year Sugarhouse resident and business owner
Sincerely,
Michael Shannon
1252 E. Roosevelt Ave.
Salt Lake City, UT 84105

