From: Dale Heisler <wasatch64@outlook.com>
To: "JBradley@slco.org" <JBradley@slco.org>
Subject: Parley's Canyon Mining
Date: Tue, 15 Feb 2022 22:39:38 -0700
Importance: Normal

Jim,
We are strongly opposed to the development by Tree Farm, LLC or any other entity wishing to mine, process or
otherwise engage in industrial activity in Parley’s Canyon, specifically along the south side between Grandeur Peak and
Mt. Aire. We think that the wording from more experienced folks in such issues, in this case Save Our Canyons, says it
well. So, we will cut and paste their wording below. We agree with their statement and count it a significant issue for our
family. We live near the mouth of this canyon and know well the land and winds of this area. The existing gravel operation
on the north side has often filled the air with rock dust which regularly travels down canyon (and by mid-day up canyon)
adding to the already high levels of air pollutants in Salt Lake County.
Allowing a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air quality and
sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the economic future of our state. To this
end, I support the leadership of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County Planning
Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zones (FRZ).
I support the following revisions of Salt Lake County Ordinances:
Prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or concrete
batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand, gravel and/or rock
aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone."
Establish a process for the County planning director to decide whether or not a use not listed is prohibited or
related to a conditional or permitted use in the relevant ordinances.
A 600 plus acres mine, or any industrialization of the Wasatch’s watershed is inconsistent with the values of our
communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this proposed revision of the ordinance that
will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.
Please vote for the above revisions and let us know how you voted. Thank you, Jim.
Dale & Shauna Heisler
2738 E Aspen Cir
Salt Lake City, UT
84109

wasatch64@outlook.com

