From: hank hemingway <hankhemingway@yahoo.com>
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Re: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.
Date: Thu, 31 Mar 2022 15:33:38 -0600
Importance: Normal

Thank-you for your support and response!
Henry Hemingway
On Thursday, March 31, 2022, 03:23:59 PM MDT, Richard Snelgrove <rsnelgrove@slco.org> wrote:

Dear Henry:

I agree with you that the proposed quarry would be very damaging to the area and to our air and water quality. I fully support
the draft ordinance and will be a yes vote when it comes up next week.

Thanks for your support.

Sincerely,

Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Councilman at-Large

From: Henry Hemingway <hankhemingway@yahoo.com>
Sent: Thursday, March 31, 2022 3:19 PM
To: Richard Snelgrove <RSnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: No Mine. Prohibit Mineral Extraction in Forestry and Recreation Zone.

Dear Mr. Snelgrove,
Dear Council Members and Mayor Wilson,
Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air quality and sensitive
water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the economic future of our state. To this end, I support
the recommendations of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County Planning Commission to
amend the Forestry and Recreation Zone and Foothills and Canyon Overlay Zones.
I support the revision of Salt Lake County Ordinances to prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry;
gravel pit; including crushers or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal
of sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone."
Further industrialization of the Wasatch’s land and water resources is inconsistent with the values of our communities. It

threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on
behalf of all that depend upon and value the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Sincerely,
Henry Hemingway
3831 E Ruth Dr
Salt Lake City, UT 84124

