2/2/2022

Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission
2001 South State Street, N3-600
Salt Lake City 84190
Dear Commission Members,
I am writing to express our support for your action on the “proposed amendment of the Salt Lake County Code
amending section 19.12.030 of the Salt Lake County Code to eliminate mineral extraction and processing as a
conditional use and explicitly prohibiting the same and other related uses in the forestry and recreation zones;
amending section 19.72.190 to eliminate mineral extraction and processing as a use for which waivers can be
granted; amending section 19.76.030 regarding classification of permitted and conditional uses not listed in title
19; and enacting related regulations.”
The Wasatch Mountain Club is over a hundred years old and our members have been hiking in this area for
decades. The WMC has over 1200 members and our purpose has been to recreate in, and help preserve the
Wasatch Mountains. The Wasatch Mountain Club opposes the proposed Tree Farm LLC mine in Parleys Canyon.
Recent events, including this proposed mine just outside the Forest Service boundary, show how at risk this area is.
This mining operation will have a dramatic and deleterious effect on the aesthetics and character of this canyon
and these ridges.
This mine would be adjacent to the proposed Grandeur Peak – Mt Aire Wilderness Area. A mine here would
negatively impact the people recreating there. The mine would visually impact and distract from the scenic
quality. The noise and dust from the mine would be repulsive and unhealthy.
Salt Lake Count’s Foothills And Canyons Overlay Zone ordinance requires the county to “Preserve the visual and
aesthetic qualities of the foothills and canyons”. This mine would certainly spoil the visual and aesthetic qualities
of the foothills and canyons
There are other significant risks to the surrounding area too. Air quality is already atrocious in this area. With what
we have witnessed from the existing mine in Parleys, dust will continue to be an issue. Even with reduced hours
during high wind and watering the mine, dust continues to be a problem for local residents. Pollution including
noise, light, and diesel fumes will also result from the increased truck traffic.
Now, and in the future, water is one of our area’s primary concerns. This proposed mining operation is located
within Parleys Canyon which is a protected watershed per Salt Lake City Public Utilities. Our valley relies on this
water. There are other places for this type of mine, there is no more water.
Sincerely,
Dennis Goreham
Conservation Director
Wasatch Mountain Club
dgoreham@gmail.com
The Wasatch Mountain Club is an outdoor recreation club for adults
dedicated to fostering awareness of the scenic beauties of the Wasatch
and encouraging preservation of our natural areas
.
1390 South 1100 East, Suite 103, Salt Lake City, Utah 84105
801.463.9842
www.wasatchmountainclub.org

Copy;

Mayor Jenny Wilson, Salt Lake County
Salt Lake Councilmember Jim Bradley
Salt Lake Councilmember Ann Granato
Mayor Jeff Silvestrini, Millcreek City

The Wasatch Mountain Club is an outdoor recreation club for adults
dedicated to fostering awareness of the scenic beauties of the Wasatch
and encouraging preservation of our natural areas
.
1390 South 1100 East, Suite 103, Salt Lake City, Utah 84105
801.463.9842
www.wasatchmountainclub.org

