From: Jeff Silvestrini <jsilvestrini@millcreek.us>
To: "dalvord@slco.org" <dalvord@slco.org>
Subject: Proposed FCOZ and FR Zone Amendments to eliminate open-pit mining as a conditional use
Date: Fri, 18 Mar 2022 13:34:22 -0600
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.png

Hi Dave:
I suppose you have heard some things about our opposition to a new proposed open-pit gravel mine in Parleys Canyon,
across from the much smaller existing mine on the north side of the canyon. Thank you for passing a notice of pending
ordinance to consider amending the Foothill Canyon Overlay Zone and the Forest Recreation Zone in the unincorporated
county to eliminate open-pit mining as a conditional use. I am aware that both the Mountainous Planning Commission
and the Salt Lake County Planning Commission have taken up this matter and both recommended to you that the
amendments be approved. I understand that the County Council will soon be taking up the matter.
I believe this ordinance change is entirely appropriate in an urban county, which already suffers air quality concerns from
PM 2.5 pollution. The existing quarry in Parleys is constantly generating PM 2.5 fugitive dust which blows down canyon
into Millcreek, creating a health and nuisance issue. Not only are we breathing this dust, it coats everything, particularly
in Millcreek’s Canyon Rim neighborhood on the south rim of Parleys Canyon as the canyon opens into the valley. Air
quality regulations do not require mitigation of fugitive dust when wind speeds exceed 25 mph, and that is a frequent
occurrence in Parleys. If you have ever been buffeted by the canyon wind when driving I-215 onto I-80 (or vice versa)
through the mouth of the canyon, you know what I am speaking about. A second, larger mine (one square mile) will only
exacerbate the problem we already have. I know we have had had similar experiences from other gravel pits in Draper
and Herriman.
I am writing to urge your support for these amendments. Air quality affects all of us in Salt Lake County, and the next
mining proposal could be closer to your constituents. We all share the airshed. Thanks for any help you can provide to
support these amendments. - Jeff

Jeff Silvestrini
Mayor, City of Millcreek
3330 S. 1300 E.
Millcreek, UT 84106
(801) 214-2705
jsilvestrini@millcreek.us

