January 25, 2022

TO: Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining

ACCT is OPPOSED to the proposed Limestone Quarry in Parley’s Canyon
This issue was presented to ACCT by its member Council, Parley’s Community Council
(PCC). ACCT at its January meeting voted to support PCC and OPPOSE the proposed
quarry in the canyon.
The following are their concerns and ACCT agrees with them::
○ Air quality & pollution (see dust storm issues from the existing quarry on the north side
of I-80).
○ Noise nuisance from explosives, excavation, crushing, etc.
○ Potential damage through excavation to aquifers that support spring-fed water
supplies throughout Mt. Aire Canyon and downstream habitat
○ Seismic disturbances to loose rock and winter snow loads in neighboring residential
areas from blasting.
○ Heightened risk of fire with mining & trucking operations.
○ Compromised security and safety to the private Mt. Aire Canyon community and
disruption to parking and other areas upon which many of its property owners rely.
○ Lack of roads and parking infrastructure to support an existing parking need for Mt.
Aire property owners and the newly proposed mine operation and heavy equipment.
○ A significant aesthetic loss to all who navigate the I80 Parley's corridor.
○ Loss of wildlife habitat.
○ Seemingly clear disregard for FCOZ related codes including but not limited to the
following sections:
■ Preserve Aesthetic Qualities of the canyons 19.72.010 A
■ Slope Protection 19.72.060
■ Grading Standards 19.72.070
■ Site Access 19.72.080
■ Trees and vegetation protection 19.72.110
■ Stream Corridor protection 19.72.130
■ Wildlife habitat protection 19.72.140
■ Traffic Studies 19.72.150
■ No evidence of of a mining waiver under 19.72.190
○ Lack of qualified registered operating authority for Storm Water Protection Plan
(SWPP)
○ Unlike the Rulon J. Harper parcels north of I-80 that have land use designations
of 850 - Mining, these Tree Farm, LLC parcels are not designated as such.

We greatly appreciate that the Salt Lake County Council voted to start a process that would
change the county’s zoning ordinances to ban mineral extraction. The amendment to be
examined by the two planning commissions over the Canyon. That section of the County code
would be to eliminate future mineral extraction and processing as a conditional use in forestry
and recreation zones. This amendment is necessary to assure preservation and safe recreation
within our canyons.

Thank You
Greg Schiffman
ACCT President
The Association of Community Councils Together (ACCT) is a nonprofit organization
made up of 14 Community Councils; those include; Big Cottonwood, Copperton, East Mill
Creek, Emigration Canyon, Granite, Kearns, Magna Community, Millcreek, Mt. Olympus,
Parleys, Sandy Hills, White City, Willow Canyon, and Willow Creek.

