From: "SDeBry@updsl.org" <SDeBry@updsl.org>
To: Cheri Jackson <cjackson@millcreek.us>
Subject: Fwd: Parley's Canyon Mining, 2022 Budget, and more!
Date: Fri, 17 Dec 2021 10:21:41 -0700
Importance: Normal

Cheri,
F. Y. I.
Steve
Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:
From: Steve DeBry <SDeBry@updsl.org>
Date: December 17, 2021 at 10:14:22 AM MST
To: Jeff Silvestrini <jsilvestrini@millcreek.us>
Subject: Fwd: Parley's Canyon Mining, 2022 Budget, and more!

Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:
From: Steve DeBry <SDeBry@updsl.org>
Date: December 17, 2021 at 10:11:14 AM MST
To: Richard Jaussi <RJaussi@slco.org>
Subject: Fwd: Parley's Canyon Mining, 2022 Budget, and more!

Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:
From: Mayor Jenny Wilson <mayor@slco.org>
Date: December 17, 2021 at 9:29:46 AM MST
To: Steve DeBry <SDeBry@updsl.org>
Subject: Parley's Canyon Mining, 2022 Budget, and more!
Reply-To: Mayor Jenny Wilson <mayor@slco.org>

Subscribe to Mayor's Newsletter

December 17, 2021
Dear Salt Lake County Residents,
Happy holidays! As the year comes to a close, I want to thank the staff,
volunteers, and residents of Salt Lake County. This year started with an
incredible vaccination effort from our Health Department, including mass
vaccination sites and mobile health centers to increase vaccine equity. As we
gather for celebrations at the end of the year, let's work to protect ourselves
and others by getting vaccinated. As always, COVID-19 and flu shot clinics are
available throughout the County. Locate a clinic at saltlakehealth.org.

Recently, there has been a lot of public dialog surrounding a proposed
limestone mine in Parley's Canyon. Preservation of our canyons has been a
priority under my administration.
Friday, December 10, Salt Lake County, with action by the Salt Lake County
Council, began the process of changing a section of the County code to
eliminate future mineral extraction and processing as a conditional use in
forestry and recreation zones. This amendment is necessary to assure
preservation and safe recreation within our canyons.
This is the first step of the process. Next, recommendations will be made by
County and Municipal Service District (MSD) planners, planning commission
members, the District Attorney, and the public before the draft will go before the
County Council for approval.
We’ve heard overwhelming constituent response and there will be at least five
more opportunities for residents to engage in this process during public
meetings, beginning in January at Community Council meetings. Planning
Commission meetings will be held:
4 p.m. Feb. 3, 2022: Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission
meeting
8:30 a.m. Feb. 9, 2022: Salt Lake County Planning Commission meeting
and details on those upcoming meetings can be found at the Utah Public Notice
Website.
Thank you for your interest in this issue.

In the News

The Salt Lake County 2022 budget has been approved by the County Council. The
budget funds Salt Lake County’s traditional programs but also provides needed
additional funding to the health department to continue COVID mitigation.
Additionally, it includes a $15 an hour living wage for full-time employees and funding
to support hiring challenges, especially under the Sheriff’s portfolio. For more budget
information, click here.

Events

Celebrate the PAWlidays with Salt Lake County Animal Services! Make toys or treats
for the cat/dog in your life, or donate your final project to your local animal
shelter. There are 8 free, virtual workshops, using odds and ends you most likely
have around the house, so no need to shop.

Programs

Salt Lake County Animal Services Pet Crew Pantry offers a monthly dog and cat food
for pick-up from 9 a.m. - 11 a.m. at the shelter while supplies last. The next pet crew
pantry is scheduled for December 18, 2021. This pet food pick-up is for dog and cat
owners struggling to purchase pet food for their furry family during this difficult time.

F

T

W

I

@ 2021 Salt Lake County
2001 South State Street | Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575
Update Your Preferences
Unsubscribe

