PARLEY'S CANYON COMMUNITY COUNCIL
ADVISORY INPUT AND RECOMMENDATION

November 29, 2021

To: Governor Spencer Cox
Representative Brian King, House District 28
Senator Derek Kitchen, Senate District 2
SL County Mayor Jenny Wilson
SL County Council Members District 4 and at Large
Mr. John Baza, Director, Utah Dept of Oil, Gas & Mining
Ms. Leslie Heppler, Utah Dept of Oil, Gas & Mining
Ms. Kimberly D. Shelley, Utah Dept of Environmental Quality
Greg Schiffman, ACCT President
Barbara Cameron, ACCT Secretary
RE: TREE FARM, LLC NOTICE OF INTENT TO COMMENCE LARGE MINE OPERATIONS
To whom it may concern:
The Parley's Canyon Community Council (PCCC) represents the property owners and residents
of unincorporated Salt Lake County in Parley’s Canyon, primarily in Mt. Aire and Lambs
Canyons. PCCC is a member of the Association of Community Councils Together (ACCT).
ACCT is an alliance of community councils that was organized throughout the unincorporated
areas of Salt Lake County and was authorized by county ordinance on January 23, 1985. ACCT is
a strong advocate of citizen participation and grass-root involvement and exists to preserve
self-determination for residents of the unincorporated areas of the Salt Lake County, to
represent citizens’ interests in policies that impact individuals in county, metro township, and

city community council neighborhoods and to provide an officially recognized forum with a
working relationship at all government levels thereby creating greater public awareness and
understanding of governance issues.
A November 24, 2021 Salt Lake Tribune article reported that Tree Farm, LLC had applied to the
Utah Department of Natural Resources to operate a new, massive 634-acre strip mine
immediately west of Mt. Aire Canyon in Parley's Canyon. Many alarmed property owners of our
community immediately contacted our council members asking that we provide input to
regulating authorities on behalf of the communities that this mine would impact.
Foremost, we're confused how an operation of this magnitude (~100-year life with a total area
of disturbance of 634 acres, per the application) within 6 minutes of Utah's most major
metropolitan city and in a corridor through which millions of travelers navigate each year may
be approved without any opportunity for public comment. Ms. Heppler with the Utah Dept of
Natural Resources informed one of our council members that Tree Farm's notice was to
commence operations of what is considered a "small mine" which has no allowance for public
comment. Upon further investigation, the cover letter that appears to have been submitted by
Tree Farm's attorney makes reference to it being a small mine, but the form submitted (page 2
of this link) and, more importantly, the size of the operation for which notice was being given
far exceeds (>30x) the statutory 20-acre small mine limitation when in an unincorporated part
of a county. Also, the application shows no evidence of access to water rights associated with
the mine. The water rights mentioned in the application are managed by Mount Aire Water
Corporation and do not service the properties owned by Tree Farm LLC.
Our community members, some of whom are residents that live within ½ mile of the proposed
mine, have expressed concerns over:
● Incredibly short application notice.
● No opportunity for public comment.
● A myriad of potentially detrimental impacts on the community:
○ Air quality & pollution (see dust storm issues from the existing quarry on the
north side of I-80).
○ Noise nuisance from explosives, excavation, crushing, etc.
○ Potential damage through excavation to aquifers that support spring-fed water
supplies throughout Mt. Aire Canyon and downstream habitat
○ Seismic disturbances to loose rock and winter snow loads in neighboring
residential areas from blasting.
○ Heightened risk of fire with mining & trucking operations.

○ Compromised security and safety to the private Mt. Aire Canyon community and
disruption to parking and other areas upon which many of its property owners
rely.
○ Lack of roads and parking infrastructure to support an existing parking need for
Mt. Aire property owners and the newly proposed mine operation and heavy
equipment.
○ A significant aesthetic loss to all who navigate the I-80 Parley's corridor.
○ Loss of wildlife habitat.
○ Seemingly clear disregard for FCOZ related codes including but not limited to the
following sections:
■ Preserve Aesthetic Qualities of the canyons 19.72.010 A
■ Slope Protection 19.72.060
■ Grading Standards 19.72.070
■ Site Access 19.72.080
■ Trees and vegetation protection 19.72.110
■ Stream Corridor protection 19.72.130
■ Wildlife habitat protection 19.72.140
■ Traffic Studies 19.72.150
■ No evidence of of a mining waiver under 19.72.190
○ Lack of qualified registered operating authority for Storm Water Protection Plan
(SWPP)
○ Unlike the Rulon J. Harper parcels north of I-80 that have land use designations
of 850-Mining, these Tree Farm, LLC parcels are not designated as such.
Notwithstanding Tree Farm, LLC's mineral rights presumably entitling it to this operation, many
residents have expressed great skepticism that Tree Farm, LLC will indeed perform in
compliance with all regulations. In the unfortunate event Tree Farm, LLC should be approved to
proceed, the community needs assurances to know how this would be monitored and
enforced.
Considering restrictions imposed by the Foothill Canyon Overlay Zone (FCOZ) ordinance, our
residents question where justice lies when overwhelming scrutiny is applied if they seek
approval for comparatively miniscule changes to their Forest Recreation Zoned property, yet
Tree Farm, LLC can remove an entire square mile of ecological landscape for 100 years.
This news was highly unexpected and greatly concerning to everyone in our community. We
recognize Tree Farm, LLC has property rights, but with an operation and impact of this scale,
our community members need reassurances to know how all of the above concerns can be
resolved.

Based on community feedback, the Parleys Canyon Community Council’s recommendation is to
not allow permits related to mining adjacent to the city or within FCOZ designated areas
without input from the community and adequate resolution of public concerns.
Respectfully,

Parley's Canyon Community Council
Darrell Whatcott
PCCC Officer
681 3rd Ave
Salt Lake City, UT 84103
801-918-8820

