Denver C. snuffer, Jr. (3032)
NELSON, SNUFFER, DAHLE & POULSEN, P.C.
10885 South State Street
Sandy, Utah 84070
Telephone: (801) 57686-1400
Email: denversnuffer@gmail.com
Attorneys for Petitioner
IN THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT
UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH
*******

LD III, LLC, a Utah limited liability
company,
Petitioner;
v.
MAPLETON CITY,
Respondent.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
Civil No. 170401683

Judge James R. Taylor

Pursuant to Rule 56, Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, Plaintiff hereby moves for
Summary Judgment.
I.

Relief Requested and Grounds for Relief.

This matter involves the designation by Mapleton City of real property belonging to
Plaintiff located in Mapleton, Utah as a Transferable Development Rights Receiving (TDR-

R) site. The designation allows the property owner to use Transferable Development
Rights ("TDRs") to have increased density in a development than otherwise allowable.
Mapleton City received approximately 76 acres as consideration for this designation.
The property was designated a TDR-R site but presently Mapleton City refuses to
recognize its TDR-R status. The Development Agreement executed by Mapleton City
clearly designates the property as TDR-R and states the property may be developed with
136 individual building lots. The Development Agreement further states that both the TDRR designation and right to construct 136 units runs with the land. Mapleton City received
76 acres in return for the TDR-R designation which it retains.
There is no documentation showing the TDR-R status was removed or what
Mapleton City gave for the removal. Plaintiff therefore requests a Declaratory Judgment
that the property in question possesses TDR-R status and that the owner has a vested
right to construct 136 units on the property
II.

Statement of Undisputed Facts.

1.

In 2003 Suburban Land Reserve, Inc. ("Suburban Land Reserve") owned

approximately 245.6 acres of real property located on the East Bench of Mapleton City,
State of Utah. See Complaint at ¶ 6 and Answer at ¶ 6.
2.

On May 7, 2003, Suburban Land Reserve entered into a Development

Agreement with Mapleton City (the "Development Agreement"). See Complaint at ¶ 8 and

2

Answer at ¶ 8; Exhibit 1, Development Agreement; and Exhibit 2, Mapleton City Resolution
No. 2003-20.
3.

The Development Agreement provides that approximately 76 acres out of the

approximately 245.6 total acres owned by Suburban Land Reserve, defined as the "Upper
Open Space" was re-zoned CE-1 (TDR-S), meaning it was a Transferable Development
Right sending site. That zoning change was final and not subject to appeal. See
Development Agreement at ¶ 2.
4.

Mapleton City zoned the remaining approximately 170 acres (the "Preserve

Development Property") as A-2 (TDR-R), meaning it was a Transferable Development
Right receiving site and was therefore eligible to be developed with the use of TDRs..1 See
Complaint at ¶ 10 and Answer at ¶ 10; Development Agreement at ¶ 1; and Exhibit 3,
Mapleton City Ordinance No. 2003-13.
5.

Suburban Land Reserve further agreed that the Upper Open Space property

would be conveyed to Mapleton City and "the density to be transferred shall be transferred
on a 5:1 ratio." Suburban Land Reserve and Mapleton City agreed that 15 units could
have been built on the Upper Open Space property and therefore Suburban Land Reserve
would be entitled to have 75 density units transferred to the Preserve Development
Property. See Development Agreement at ¶ 1.
1

A Transferable Development Right, or "TDR" can be used on property that has
been designated as TDR-R to allow a party to build more densely than otherwise
permitted based on Utah Code §§10-9a-509.7 and 17-27a-509.7.
3

6.

The Development Agreement states that Suburban Land Reserve "has a

vested right" to develop a maximum of 136 single family residential units on the Preserve
Development Property. See Development Agreement at ¶ 6 (emphasis added).
7.

The Development Agreement states it is binding on the successors and

assigns of Suburban Land Reserve. See Development Agreement at ¶ 19.
8.

The Development Agreement states "public notice of this Agreement shall

be recorded immediately as a covenant running with the Property herein described
…." See Development Agreement at ¶ 21 (emphasis added).
9.

In 2003, in conjunction with the Development Agreement, the property was

zoned A-2 (TDR-R). Suburban Land Reserve transferred to Mapleton City via a Quit Claim
Deed the Upper Open Space property. In exchange, Suburban Land Reserve received
TDRs and the Preserve Development Property was designated an A-2 (TDR-R) zone.
That meant the Preserve Development Property was an A-2 zone and a TDR receiving
site. See Complaint at ¶ 14 and Answer at ¶ 14.
10.

On December 14, 2005, Suburban Land Reserve transferred the Preserve

Development Property, along with water rights and TDRs, to Craig Thueson via a Special
Warranty Deed. See Exhibit 4, Special Warranty Deed.
11.

The same day, Craig Thueson transferred the Preserve Development

Property, water rights and TDRs to The Preserve at Mapleton Development Company, LLC

4

("The Preserve at Mapleton") via a Special Warranty Deed. See Exhibit 5, Special
Warranty Deed.
12.

On December 21, 2005, The Mapleton City Council approved the assignment

of the Development Agreement to The Preserve at Mapleton. See Complaint at ¶ 17 and
Answer at ¶ 17 and Exhibit 6, Mapleton City Council Meeting Minutes dated December 21,
2005.
13.

At the Mapleton City Council Meeting, the minutes reflect that the "Mayor

briefly summarized the background history associated with the acquisition of the suburban
Land Reserve property located on the east side of Mapleton Canal." The Mayor stated that
"under the provisions of the May 7, 2003 Development Agreement between Suburban
Land Reserve and the City Council, Suburban Land Reserve received development
approval for 134 properties plus 77 Transferable Development Rights in exchange for the
dedication to the City of 77 acres of Land." See Id.
14.

As part of approving the transfer of the Development Agreement and

approving the plats for a subdivision, Mapleton City changed the zoning of The Preserve
property from A-2 to a PRC zone. See Complaint at ¶ 18 and Answer at ¶ 18.
15.

On May 17, 2006, the Mapleton City Council approved a change of the

zoning of the Preserve Development Property from A-2 to PRC-4 and the action was
formalized as Mapleton City Council Resolution No. 2006-15. See Exhibit 7, Mapleton
City Council Meeting Minutes and Exhibit 8, Ordinance No. 2006-15.
5

16.

On December 6, 2006, The Preserve at Mapleton executed a promissory

note and a Deed of Trust in favor of LD III, LLC. ("LD, III"). The Deed of Trust encumbered
the Preserve Development Property. See Exhibits 9 and 10, Trust Deed Note and Trust
Deed with Assignment of Rents.
17.

LD III purchased The Preserve Development Property at the Trustee's sale

and a Trustee's Deed was executed and recorded on December 23, 2008, conveying the
Preserve Development Property to LD III. See Exhibit 11, Trustee's Deed.
18.

A developer approached Mapleton City with a development plan for The

Preserve Development Property. See Complaint at ¶ 24 and Answer at ¶ 24.
19.

Mapleton City informed the developer that the Preserve Development

Property was not a TDR-R overlay zone and the developer could not use TDRs on the
Preserve Development Property without Mapleton City again designating the Preserve
Development Property as a TDR receiving site. See Complaint at ¶ 25 and Answer at ¶
25.
20.

In preparation for a Mapleton City Council Meeting regarding the application

of the developer to designate the Preserve Development Property as a TDR receiving site,
the staff for Mapleton City prepared a report. In the report, staff states "[t]he original zoning
for the property was A-2, which required a minimum of two acres per lot. The adopted
PRC zone did not change the allowed density, but it did allow for flexibility in lot sizes."
See Exhibit 12, City Council Staff Report dated May 3, 2017.
6

21.

On June 7, 2017, the Mapleton City Council approved the developer's

request to designate the Preserve Development Property as a TDR receiving site. See
Complaint at ¶ 26 and Answer at ¶ 26 and Exhibit 13, Mapleton City Council Meeting
Minutes dated June 7, 2017 at pp. 2-3.
22.

At the June 7, 2017 City council Meeting, the attorney for Mapleton City

stated, "that Plats A, B, and C were subject to a development agreement for 136 lots and
if you continued the additional plats you have a total of 191 lots which is a higher density
than what the current applicant is applying for." See Exhibit 13 at p. 3.
23.

Opponents of development of the Preserve Development Property filed for

and obtained a Referendum on the Mapleton City Council's action in approving the TDR-R
overlay status for The Preserve Development Property. A "yes" vote supported the action
of the Mapleton City Council. The Referendum failed. See Complaint at ¶ 29-30 and
Answer at ¶¶ 29-30.
24.

Maps of the Preserve Development Property from Mapleton City show that

the Preserve Development Property was designated A-2 (TDR-R) from 2003 until 2007.
See Exhibit 14, zoning maps of Mapleton City.
25.

The Mapleton City Ordinance for PRC zones specifically allows the use of

TDRs to increase the density in PRC zone. See Exhibit 15, PRC Planned Residential
Community at §18.82.070.

7

III.

Argument.

Summary judgment is proper when there is no genuine issue as to any material fact
and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. See Rule 56( c), U.R.C.P.;
Gold Standard, Inc. v. Getty Oil Co., 915 P.2d 1060, 1063 (Utah 1996) (quoting Billings v.
Union Bankers Ins. Co., 819 P.2d 805 n. 2 (Utah 1991)). In this matter, there are no
genuine issues of material fact. It is clear that the Preserve Development Property was
designated a TDR receiving site in return for the dedication to Mapleton City of
approximately 76 acres of land, the property was designated to have 136 building lots, the
designation was agreed to run with the land and there is no written document changing that
status. Therefore, Plaintiff is entitled to summary judgment,
A.

Development Agreement

It is uncontested that pursuant to the Development Agreement between Mapleton
City and Suburban Land Reserve, Suburban Land Reserve dedicated approximately 76
acres to Mapleton City. In return, Mapleton City issued Suburban Land Reserve TDRs,
designated the Preserve Development Property as a TDR receiving site, gave it an A-2
zoning classification, and agreed that there could be 136 individual lots developed on the
property. It is undisputed that Mapleton City retained ownership of the 76 acres it received
from Suburban Land Reserve. It is further undisputed that the Preserve Development
Property was later re-zoned the Preserve Development Property PRC-4.

8

A TDR-R designation is called a TDR overlay. It overlays the underlying zoning of
the property. Here, there is no dispute that the Preserve Development Property was zoned
A-2 (TDR-R), meaning it was zoned as A-2 and was a TDR receiving site. The underlying
zoning was later changed to PRC-4, but importantly no action was taken to remove the
TDR-R overlay status. There is no Mapleton City document removing the TDR-R overlay.
There were only approvals for a lesser density development and a change of the
underlying zoning. Nothing removed the TDR-R overlay.
The Development Agreement states its terms are to run with the land. Black's Law
Dictionary defines running with the land as a term "referring generally to covenants that
pass with the transfer of the land. A covenant is said to run with the land when either the
liability to perform it or the right to take advantage of it passes to the assignee of that land."
See Black's Law Dictionary 928 (Abridged 6th ed. 1991). Therefore, the right to develop
136 building lots and TDR-R status transfers with a transfer of the Preserve Development
Property, which Plaintiff has now acquired.
Further, the Development Agreement states that there is a vested right to develop
136 building lots. A vested right is one that is " fixed; accrued; settled; absolute; complete;
… not contingent; not subject to be defeated by a condition precedent." See Id. at 1083.
Therefore, the TDR-R overlay status and the vested right to build 136 building lots cannot
be taken away or changed. It does not require any action by Mapleton City.

9

Further, the Attorney for the City of Mapleton admitted in a public meeting that Plats
A, B, and C (plats proposed by the previous owner for the Preserve Development Property)
were subject to a development agreement for 136 lots. Likewise, the staff report to the
Mapleton City Council stated that when the zoning was changed from A-2 to PRC-4 it did
not change the allowed density, but it did allow for flexibility in lot sizes. Mapleton City
Code regarding PRC zones specifically states that a PRC zone can also be a TDR-R
overlay zone. Although the zoning classification was changed, the TDR-R overlay status
was never removed or affected.
There is no dispute that the Preserve Development Property was designated a TDRR overlay site, the TDR-R status was never removed, the density was set at 136 units, the
allowable density was never changed and the density of 136 units is a vested right. The
fact that a previous developer, who lost the real property through foreclosure, decided to
build less than the 136 units did not remove the vested right that ran with the land to
develop 136 lots and the designation as a TDR-R overlay zone.
Mapleton City received title to approximately 76 acres of property from Suburban
Land Reserve. In return, the Preserve Development Property was designated a TDR-R
overlay site and it was given the right to develop 136 building lots. Those rights and the
TDR-R status run with the land. Mapleton City now seeks to declare The Preserve
Development Property is not a TDR receiving site but yet it keeps the property it received
in return for that designation.
10

B.

Utah's Statute of Frauds.

The Utah Statute of Frauds, found at Utah Code Annotated § 25-5-1, requires that
any surrender of an interest in real property must be in writing and signed by the party
surrendering the interest. In this case, the TDR-R status was a property right that vested
when the 76 acres were transferred to Mapleton City and the parties signed a Development
Agreement. Those are in writing. But there is no writing removing or surrendering the
TDR-R status and the right to develop 136 lots on the Preserve Development Property.
Without a written surrender, these rights remain. Therefore, the TDR-R status and the
ability to develop 136 lots were never lawfully removed and should be enforced.
CONCLUSION
There is no dispute that the Preserve Development Property was designated a TDR
receiving site with the ability to develop 136 lots. The designation runs with the land and
was never surrendered. Therefore, Plaintiff is entitled to a Declaratory Judgment that the
Preserve Development Property is a TDR-R overlay zone and that it can have 136 building
lots developed.
DATED this 26th day of February, 2018
NELSON, SNUFFER, DAHLE & POULSEN, P.C.

/s/ Denver C. Snuffer, Jr.
Denver C. Snuffer, Jr.
Attorney for LD III, LLC

11

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on this 26th day of February, 2018, I served a true an correct
copy of the foregoing Motion for Summary Judgment on the following by email through
electronic filing through Judicial Link:
Eric Johnson
BLAISDELL, CHURCH & JOHNSON, LLC
5995 South Redwood Road
Salt Lake City, Utah 84123
eric@bcjlaw.net
Dated this 26th day of February, 2018.

/s/ Denver C. Snuffer, Jr.
Denver C. Snuffer, Jr.

12

