Denver C. Snuffer, Jr. (3032)
NELSON, SNUFFER, DAHLE & POULSEN, P.C.
10885 South State Street
Sandy, Utah 84070
Telephone: (801) 57686-1400
Email: denversnuffer@gmail.com
Attorneys for Petitioner
IN THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT
UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH
*******
)
LD III, LLC, a Utah limited liability)
company,
)
)
Petitioner;
)
)
v.
)
)
MAPLETON CITY,
)
)
Respondent.
)
)
)
)
)
)

M E M O R AN D U M O P P O S I N G
RESPONDENT'S MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND
R E P L Y M E M O R AN D U M I N
SUPPORT OF PETITIONER'S
MOTI O N F O R S UMMARY
JUDGMENT
Civil No. 170401683

Judge James R. Taylor

Pursuant to Rules 7 and 56 of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure, Petitioner hereby
submits the following Memorandum Opposing Respondent's Motion for Summary
Judgment and Reply Memorandum in Support of Petitioner's Motion for Summary
Judgment1.
1

Because Respondent filed their m otion and their opposition to Petitioner's m otion as one docum ent
and did not distinguish in the docum ent what parts were in support of their m otion for sum m ary judgm ent and
what parts were in opposition to Petitioner's m otion for sum m ary judgm ent, Petitioner will adopt Respondent's
practice for this m em orandum Petitioner is allowed 25 pages for its opposition to Respondent's m otion for
sum m ary judgm ent and is allowed 15 pages for its rely m em orandum in support of its m otion. Therefore,
Petitioner is allowed a total of 40 pages. This m em orandum contains only a total of 32 pages, with 17 of those
pages dedicated to responding to proposed factual statem ents. Petitioner's argum ent is 15 pages.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFERRED DISPOSITION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
NEW MATTERS RAISED BY RESPONDENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
PETITIONER'S RESPONSE TO RESPONDENT'S STATEMENT OF ADDITIONAL
UNDISPUTED FACTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
RECITATION OF STATEMENT OF UNDISPUTED FACTS, RESPONSES AND REPLIES
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
DISCUSSION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
I.

The Referendum Was Improper and Therefore Not Binding . . . . . . . . 17

II.

The Earlier TDR-R Overlay Designation for The Preserve Was Never Legally
Removed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

III.

The Development Agreement's Terms Run with the Land . . . . . . . . . . 20

IV.

The Development Agreement Grants the Right to Build 136 Individual Units
on The Preserve Property . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27

V.

Statute of Limitations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28

VI.

Statute of Frauds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30

VII.

Estoppel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

CONCLUSION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
ORAL ARGUMENT REQUESTED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

ii

TABLE OF AUTHORITIES
Case Authority
Billings v. Union Bankers Ins. Co., 819 P.2d 801 (Utah 1991) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Ellis v. Utah State Retirement Board, 757 P.2d 882 (Utah Ct. App. 1988) . . . . . . . . 20
Flying Diamond Oil v. Newton Sheep Co., 776 P.2d 618 (Utah 1989) . . . . . . . . . 24, 26
Gold Standard, Inc. v. Getty Oil Co., 915 P.2d 1060 (Utah 1996) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Hansen v. Green River Group,748 P.2d 1102 (Utah Ct. App. 1998) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Oquirrh Associates v. First National Leasing Company, 888 P.2d 659 (Utah Ct. App.1994)
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23, 24
West v. Case, 2006 UT App 325, 142 P.3d 576 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22, 23
Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah 1988) . . . . . . . . . 28

Statutes, Rules, Regulations
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-103(29) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-103 (60) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-501(1) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502(1) and (2) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Utah Code Ann. § 20A-7-601 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Utah Code Ann. § 20A-7-101(13) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Utah R. Civ. P. Rule 56(c) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11, 16

iii

PREFERRED DISPOSITION
Petitioner requests the Court grant its motion for summary judgment and deny
Respondent's Motion for Summary Judgment. Respondent has not disputed any of
Petitioner's facts. The referendum conducted by Mapleton City was illegal. A referendum
cannot be held on individual zoning decisions according to Utah Code.

Therefore the

action of the Mapleton City Council in 2017 designating the Preserve Property a TDR
receiving site is valid, despite the referendum.
However, the designation of the Preserve Property as a TDR receiving site in 2017
was unnecessary and redundant because the TDR receiving site designation for the
Preserve Property was never legally removed. Mapleton City received title to 76 acres of
property in return for designating the Preserve Property a TDR receiving site. In addition,
Mapleton City gave the Preserve Property a vested right to have 136 individual lots. It is
clear the right to have the Preserve Property remain a TDR receiving site and the right to
develop 136 individual lots runs with the land. Therefore, Petitioner is entitled to a
declaratory judgment that the Preserve Property is a TDR receiving site and it has a vested
right to 136 units to be developed.
NEW MATTERS RAISED BY RESPONDENT
Because Respondent combined its Motion for Summary Judgment with its
Opposition to Petitioner's Motion for Summary Judgment, it is difficult to understand what
new matters Respondent raised in responding to Petitioner's Motion for Summary
Judgment and what matters were raised as part of Respondent's Motion for Summary
Judgment. Therefore, Petitioner will treat every issued raised not originally in Petitioner's

1

Motion for Summary Judgment as a new issue for the purposes of Petitioner's Reply
Memorandum.
Respondent raises the following new matters:
(1)

LD III, LLC's ("LD III") claims are procedurally barred because LD III did not

timely assert them;
(2) Mapleton City's actions constitute an implied repeal of the TDR-R overlay zone;
(3) The Statute of Frauds does not bar the Mapleton City's actions;
(4) LD III cannot claim the benefits of the 2003 Development Agreement because
it is barred from enforcing any contractual benefits because of the Statute of Limitations
and Estoppel;
(5) LD III cannot claim the benefits of the 2003 Development Agreement because
it has no rights under the Development Agreement because LD III in not an assignee or
successor to the Development Agreement or Memorandum of Understanding;
(6) LD III Cannot claim the benefits of the 2003 Development Agreement because
it has no rights under the Development Agreement because the covenants of the
Development Agreement do not run with the land; and
(7) LD III cannot claim the benefits of the 2003 Development Agreement because
it has no rights under the Development Agreement because it would be in breach of the
Development Agreement.
PETITIONER'S RESPONSE TO RESPONDENT'S STATEMENT OF ADDITIONAL
UNDISPUTED FACTS
1. The Utah Code permits municipalities to adopt ordinances regarding the creation
and us of "transferable development rights" or "TDRs" UTAH CODE § 10-9a-509.7.
TDRs allow "a land owner in a designated sending zone to transfer land use rights
2

from a designated sending zone to a designated receiving zone." Id. § 10-9a-103
(60).
RESPONSE: Undisputed as far as the relevant code sections are cited correctly.
2. Mapleton City adopted a TDR ordinance in 1998, which provided that certain
properties could be designated as "TDR Sending Sites:" and receive a "TDR-S"
overlay zone in addition to their base zoning status. This requires the owner to
grant a conservation easement or transfer property to the City on order to prevent
all future development on that property. Exhibit 17, Ordinance 98-36, §§ 18.90.040,
060; MCC § 18.76.040, 060.
RESPONSE: Undisputed as far as the ordinances are cited correctly.
3. In exchange, the owner would receive TDR certificates, commonly referred to
simply as "TDRs", based on the size and zoning of the TDR Sending Site property.
TDRs are a property right that can be bought and sold as any other property
independently of the property for which they were granted. Exhibit 17, § 18.90.060;
MCC § 18.76,060; Exhibit 3 ¶¶ 12-13.
RESPONSE: Undisputed as far as the ordinances are cited correctly.
4.
TDRs grant the owner the right to increase the permitted density of a
development. In effect, TDRs allow for a transfer of density rights from one property
to another. And the TDRs used for a particular development do not need to come
from the property sought to be developed. Exhibit 17 § 18.90.070; MCC §
18.76.070; Exhibit 3 ¶ 12-14 [sic].
RESPONSE: Undisputed as far as the ordinances are cited correctly.
5.
In order to use TDRs, the property must be designated as "TDR Receiving
Site" on the City's official zoning map, meaning that the property has received
"TDR-R" zoning in addition to its base zoning status. Exhibit 17 § 18.90.070(1)(a);
MCC § 18.76.045.
RESPONSE: Undisputed as far as the ordinances are cited correctly.
6.
In 2003, Suburban Land Reserve, Inc. ("Suburban Land Reserve") owned
approximately 245 acres of real property in Mapleton City ("Preserve Property").
Exhibit 1, ¶ A.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.

3

7.
On May 7, 2003, Suburban Land Reserve entered into a Development
Agreement with Mapleton City ("Development Agreement"). Exhibit 1.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
8.
The Development Agreement provides that approximately 76 acres out of the
approximately 245.6 total acres owned by Suburban Land Reserve, defined as the
"Upper Open Space" would be transferred to Mapleton City via quit-claim deed and
re-zoned from CE-1 to CE-1 (TDR-S), meaning it was a Transferable Development
Right sending site. Exhibit 1 ¶ 2.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
9.
Suburban Land Reserve further agreed that the Upper Open Space property
would be conveyed to Mapleton City in exchange for TDRs "on a 5:1 ratio."
Suburban Land Reserve and Mapleton City agreed that 15 units could have been
built on the Upper Open Space property and therefore Suburban Land Reserve
would be entitled to have 75 TDRs that could be transferred to the Preserve
Property or any other property zoned to receive increased density from TDRs.
Exhibit 1 ¶ 2.
RESPONSE: Disputed. The Development Agreement does not state the Upper Open
Space property would be conveyed to Mapleton City in exchange for TDRs. It states the
Upper Open Space property shall be conveyed to the City and "therefore, density to be
transferred shall be transferred on a 5:1 ratio. The parties have agreed that fifteen (15)
units could have been built on the property designated herein as the Upper Open Space
and, therefore, Owner shall be entitled to have seventy-five (75) density units transferred
to the remainder of the Owner Development Property." See Development Agreement,
attached to Petitioner's Motion for Summary Judgment as Exhibit 1 at ¶ 2. There is no
mention of TDRs. The Development Agreement states the density is to be transferred to
the remainder of the property, not that TDRs are to be issued.
10.
Ultimately, Suburban Land Reserve received 77 TDRs for its transfer of the
Upper Portion. Exhibit 1 ¶ 2.

4

RESPONSE: Disputed. The paragraph referred to does not show that Suburban Land
Reserve received 77 TDRs for its transfer of the Upper Portion. It simply states that
Suburban Land Reserve would receive a density transferred to the remaining land of a 5:1
ratio. The paragraph referred to never mentions TDRS. Further, it is only evidence of the
agreement, not what ultimately happened. See Development Agreement, attached to
Petitioner's Motion for Summary Judgment as Exhibit 1 at ¶ 2
11.
In May 2003, Mapleton City zoned the remaining approximately 170 acres
as A-2 (TDR-R), meaning it was a Transferable Development Right receiving site
and could be developed with the use of TDRs. Exhibit 1 ¶ 2; [sic]
RESPONSE: Disputed. There is nothing in paragraph 2 of the Development Agreement
that shows the property was rezoned in May 2003. Paragraph 2 simply states "[t]he upper
portion of the Development Property, consisting of approximately 76 acres (the "Upper
Open Space") has been rezoned CE-1 (TDR-S) …." There is no mention of when it
occurred. See Development Agreement, attached to Petitioner's Motion for Summary
Judgment as Exhibit 1 at ¶ 2
12.
Under the A-2 zone, the maximum density allowed is one lot per two acres,
which would have permitted approximately 85 lots on the 170 acres. MCC §
18.76.070(B). The same density restrictions apply to the PRC zone what was later
applied to the Preserve Property. Exhibit 15 at 4.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
13.
On December 14, 2005, Suburban Land Reserve transferred the Preserve
Property and its water rights to Craig Thueson via a Special Warranty Deed. Exhibit
18, SLR-CT Deed.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
14.
The same day, Craig Thueson transferred the Preserve Property and the
water rights to The Preserve at Mapleton Development Company, LLC (The
Preserve at Mapleton") via a Special Warranty Deed. Exhibit 19, CT-PMDC Deed.
5

RESPONSE: Undisputed.
15. Also at that same time, Nathan Simpson, on behalf of The Preserve at
Mapleton, applied for a rezoning of the Preserve Property from A-2 to PRC-4. No
reference was made regarding the retention of the TDR-R overlay zoning. Exhibit
7.
RESPONSE: Undisputed. However, Petitioner objects to any implication that by not
referencing the TDR-R overlay zoning that it was intended to be removed.
16.
Under this application, no TDRs would have been needed because the
Preserve at Mapleton sought to develop 55 units on 111 acres, or one unit for every
approximately two acres (the minimum density allowed without TDRs). Exhibit 7;
Exhibit 15 at 4.
RESPONSE: Petitioner admits to the contents of the application. However, Petitioner
disputes the statement that one unit for every approximately two acres was the minimum
density for the Preserve Property. See Development Agreement, attached to Petitioner's
Motion for Summary Judgment as Exhibit 1 at ¶ 2 and ¶ 6.
17.
On December 21, 2005, the Mapleton City Council took up consideration of
whether to approve the assignment of the Development Agreement to The Preserve
at Mapleton. Exhibit 5, CC Meeting Minutes 12/21/05.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
18.
The City Council meeting minutes reflect that Suburban Land Reserve "had
sold the property to Craig Thueson subject to City approval to the assignment as
required under the Development Agreement, to build approximately 55 dwellings."
Exhibit 5 at 1.
RESPONSE: Undisputed
19.
The City council approved the transfer by voting to adopt a resolution.
Exhibit 5 at 2. That resolution, numbered 2005-61, provides, "pursuant to section
10 of the Development Agreement the City has the right to grant or withhold its
approval of a transfer of the Property," "Suburban Land Reserve has complied with
certain other provisions of the Development Agreement, such as a transfer of
certain lands to the City in exchange for Transferable Development Rights,"
"Suburban has agreed to sell its remaining interest in the Property … to Craig
6

Thueson subject to the approval of the City to said transfer," "the Preserve has
agreed to purchase Suburban's remaining interest in the Property subject to the
terms and conditions of the Development Agreement," "the City Council finds it is
in the best interest of the City and its citizens for the remaining interest in the
Property to be developed subject to the terms and conditions of the Development
Agreement and subject to the further representations by Mr. Thueson and the
Preserve that no more than 52 homes will be constructed on the Property," and that
"the City Council approves the transfer of Suburban's remaining interest in the
Property as further described in the foregoing documents … [which] authorizations
are subject to Mr. Thueson or the Preserve entering into an agreement with the City
that no more than 52 homes will be build on the property." Exhibit 6, Resolution
2005-61, 1-2.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
20. Suburban Land Reserve transferred 67 of its 77 TDRs to The Preserve at
Mapleton Development Company. Exhibit 3 ¶ 19.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
21. Nathan Simpson, on behalf of the Preserve Property, subsequently amended
his rezoning application to ask for the rezoning to apply to additional property as
part of a new development plan allowing for "102 lots on 246 acres, or a density of
one dwelling unit per 2.4 acres." Exhibit 20, PC Staff Report 4/13/06, at 2. Again,
no TDRs would have been needed because the density was over the minimum of
one unit per two acres.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
22.
On May 17, 2006, the Mapleton City Council rezoned the Preserve Property
from A-2 (TDR-R) to PRC-4, and the action was formalized as Mapleton City
Council Resolution No. 2006-15. Exhibit 8; Exhibit 9.
RESPONSE: Petitioner admits that the Mapleton City Council rezoned the Preserve
Property from A-2 to PRC-4. Respondents dispute that the TDR-R overlay status was
removed. There was no mention in any of the ordinances or applications regarding the
removal of the TDR-R overlay status. Neither the minutes of the Mapleton city Council
meeting, nor the ordinance mention zoning of A-2 (TDR-R) or the removal of the TDR

7

overlay status.

They simply address the base zoning from A-2 to PRC-4.

See

Respondent's Exhibits 8 and 9.
23.
On December 6, 2006, The Preserve at Mapleton executed a Trust Deed
Note and a Deed of Trust in favor of LD III, LLC (LD, III) [sic]. While the Deed of
Trust encumbered the Preserve Property, it made no reference to the Development
Agreement or the TDRs that had ben transferred to the Preserve at Mapleton by
Suburban Land Reserve. Exhibit 13; Exhibit 14.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
24.
The Deed of Trust gave LD III the right to appear in or defend any action that
could affect the Preserve Property. Exhibit 14 at 2, ¶ 4.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
25.
Mapleton City and the Preserve at Mapleton entered into a "Memorandum
of Understanding" ("MOU") on January 10, 2007, which Memorandum set[] forth the
understanding of The Preserve at Mapleton Development Company, LLC … and
Mapleton City with regard to the final approval" of the Preserve at Mapleton's
subdivision plats. Exhibit 2.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
26.
The MOU stated that "[e]verything in this Memorandum shall be in harmony
with the development agreement" and noted that The Preserve at Mapleton "is the
authorized assignee" of "that certain Development Agreement dated May 7, 2003
between Mapleton City and Suburban Land Reserve, Inc." Exhibit 2, Introduction
& ¶ 2.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
27.
As described in the Mapleton City Code and Mapleton City staff report dated
August 7, 2007, a "PRC zone requires a zone text for each proposed subdivision.
Exhibit 12, at 2 ¶ 2; MCC § 18.82;030. Paragraph 5 of the MOU states that
"Developer shall submit the Zoning Text for the PRC-4 zone." Exhibit 2 ¶ 5.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
28.
The zoning text submitted by the Preserve at Mapleton for the PR zone was
adopted by the Mapleton City Council on August 21, 2007. Exhibit 10 at 3-4; Exhibit
11; Exhibit 12 at 1-2 & Attachment 2. This zoning text included a provision
regarding maximum allowed density: "The total density allowed in the Preserve at
8

Mapleton PRC zone is 92 individual building lots and Common area Buildings. No
new subdivision lots shall be permitted beyond those originally approved for the
purpose of increasing this density." Exhibit 11 at 5 (18.82D.110). This provision
remains part of the PRC-4 zone today. MCC § 18.82D.110.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
29.
The Preserve at Mapleton defaulted on the Trust Deed on July 26, 2008, and
the Preserve Property was consequently sold at a trustee's sale held on November
7, 2008. Exhibit 21, Trustee's Notice of Default; Exhibit 22, Trustee's Deed.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
30.
LD III purchased The Preserve Property at the trustee's sale and a Trustee's
Deed was executed and recorded on December 23, 2008. Exhibit 22.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
31.
Of the 67 TDRs transferred to The Preserve at Mapleton Development
Company from Suburban Land Reserve in 2006, 55 were transferred to unrelated
entities to develop properties other than the Preserve Property between 2006 and
2017, with the remaining 12 TDRs retained by the Preserve at Mapleton
Development Company. Exhibit 3 ¶ 19.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
32.
No TDRs resulting from the original Development Agreement were
transferred to or acquired by LD III. Exhibit 3, ¶ 19. This issue was raised in
separate litigation between LD III and the Preserve at Mapleton, wherein Judge
Samuel McVey concluded that the TDRs were "not subject to the … trust deed and
security agreement" and "[a]ccordingly, none of the Plaintiffs have an interest in the
TDRs." Exhibit 23, Order in Case No. 090403844, at 3.
RESPONSE: Disputed. Exhibit 3 is the Declaration of Sean Conroy who is not a judge
or a lawyer and cannot testify as what was transferred or acquired by LD III. He can testify
as to what the records of Mapleton City reflect, but not as to whether LD III acquired any
TDRs. Further, Judge McVey entered two orders in relation to the Preliminary Injunction
hearing. In open court when ruling, Judge McVey specifically stated that the findings and

9

order he entered were only for the purpose of the Preliminary Injunction hearing.2 The
issue of LD III's interest in the TDRs has yet to be determined. See Petitioner's Exhibit A
hereto, copy of Transcript of Judge McVey's Ruling.
33.
Neither LD III nor the Preserve at Mapleton requested or received approval
from Mapleton City in connection with the execution of the Trust Deed Note and
Deed of Trust or the subsequent transfer of the Preserve Property from the
Preserve at Mapleton to LD III through the trustee's sale and deed. Neither LD III
nor the Preserve at Mapleton entered into an agreement with the City regarding the
promissory note, deed of trust, trustee's sale and deed, or the rights of the owner
of the Preserve Property. Exhibit 3 ¶ 8.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
34.
On or about January 13, 2017, nearly a decade after acquiring the Preserve
Property from the Preserve at Mapleton, LD III entered into a Real Estate Purchase
Contract to sell the Preserve Property to Balton Development, led by Mr. Andy Ball
("Balton Development"). Complaint ¶ 23; Answer ¶ 23; Exhibit 15, at 3.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
35.
Balton Development approached Mapleton City with a development plan for
The Preserve Property in April and May of 2017 that required the use of TDRs and
therefore the rezoning of the Preserve Property to allow for the use of TDRs.
Exhibit15, at 1, 3-4.
RESPONSE: Disputed. Whether a rezoning of the property to allow for the use of TDRs
was necessary is the very issue in this dispute. See Complaint.
36.
On June 7, 2017, the Mapleton City Council approved Balton Development's
request to designate the Preserve Property as a TDR receiving site. Exhibit 24, CC
Meeting Minutes 6/7/17, at 2-3.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.
37.
The re-designation of the Preserve Property as a TDR receiving site was
subsequently reversed through a referendum vote. Complaint ¶¶ 27-30; Answer ¶¶
27-30.

2

See Transcript (attached as Exhibit 1), page 4, lines 4-7.

10

RESPONSE: Respondent admits only that a referendum was held and the result of the
voting was to reverse the action of the Mapleton City Council. However, as set forth below,
the referendum was illegal and had no effect.
38.
Mapleton City's official zoning maps from 2003 and June 20, 2006, show that
the Preserve Property was designated A-2 (TDR-R).. [sic] The zoning maps from
May 7, 2007, August 29, 2008, March 21, 2012, and February 2, 2017, show the
Preserve Property zone as PRC-4 with no TDR overlay. Exhibit 3 ¶¶ 23-25 &
Exhibit B.
RESPONSE: Undisputed.

RECITATION OF STATEMENT OF UNDISPUTED FACTS, RESPONSES AND REPLIES.
Rule 56(a)(2) of the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure requires a party opposing a
motion for summary judgment to include a "verbatim restatement of each of the moving
party's facts that is disputed with an explanation of the grounds for the dispute supported
by citing materials in the record." Respondent only included a verbatim restatement of
Petitioner's facts numbers 7, 8, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 24 and 25. Therefore, Petitioner's
statement of facts numbers 1-6, 9, 12-13 and 17-23 are undisputed and deemed admitted.
Petitioner replies to Respondent's response to Petitioner's other statement of facts as
follows:
7. The Development Agreement states it is binding on the successors and assigns
of Suburban Land Reserve. See Development Agreement at ¶ 19.
RESPONSE: LD III's characterization of the rights of successors and assigns of the
Development Agreement is incomplete and misleading. Paragraph 19 of the
Development Agreement does provide, "This Agreement shall be binding on the
successors and assigns of Owner [Suburban Land Reserve]." Exhibit 1,
Development Agreement ¶ 19. That paragraph continues by discussing the process
through which "an approved purchaser of the Project or any portion thereof' [sic]
takes on the obligations of the Development Agreement. Exhibit 1 ¶ 19 (emphasis
11

added). LD III omits entirely any discussion of paragraph 10 of the Development
Agreement, entitled "Assignment of Agreement." Exhibit 1 ¶ 10. That paragraph
provides, "Owner's rights under this Agreement shall be personal to Owner and
shall only run with the land so long as Owner ora company which is affiliated with
or under common ownership and control or Owner shall own and be the Owner of
the Property. In the event that Owner shall advise City of such intention. Only
upon the express prior written approval by the City, shall any rights of Owner
with respect to the potion [sic] of the Property being sold be deemed
transferred to the new owner thereof. Exhibit 1 ¶ 10 (emphasis added).
REPLY: Respondent fails to dispute Petitioner's fact. Respondent's response is nothing
but legal argument and an attempt to posit its own facts in a response, which is not in
accord with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure. Respondent admits the text of the
paragraph at issue. Therefore, this fact is undisputed.
8.

The Development Agreement states "public notice of this Agreement shall

be recorded immediately as a covenant running with the Property herein described
…." See Development Agreement at ¶ 21 (emphasis added).
RESPONSE: Again, LD III's statement is incomplete and misleading. Paragraph
21 of the Development Agreement provides that after the rezoning was finalized, "this
Agreement or a memorandum providing public notice of the existence of this Agreement
shall be recorded immediately as a covenant running with the Property herein described
in order to put prospective purchasers or other interested parties on notice as to the
terms and provisions hereof." Exhibit 1 ¶ 21 (emphasis added). LD III again omits
paragraph 10, which provides in part that "Owner's rights under this Agreement shall be
personal to Owner and shall only run with the land so long as Owner or a company
which is affiliated with or under common ownership and control of Owner shall own
and be the Owner of the Property." Exhibit 1 ¶ 10 (emphasis added). The Development
Agreement was never recorded, and nothing referencing the Development Agreement was
recorded until September 2008. Exhibit 3, Declaration of Sean Conroy ¶ 7; Exhibit 4,
Recorded Documents Regarding MOU.
REPLY: Once again Respondents do not dispute Petitioner's statement of fact. Rather,
it confirms it. Respondent's response is nothing but legal argument and an attempt to posit

12

its own facts in a response, which is not in accord with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.
Respondent admits the text of the paragraph at issue. Therefore, this fact is undisputed.
10.

On December 14, 2005, Suburban Land Reserve transferred the Preserve

Development Property, along with water rights and TDRs, to Craig Thueson via a Special
Warranty Deed. See Exhibit 4, Special Warranty Deed.
RESPONSE: LD III's Exhibit 4, the Special Warranty Deed conveying property
between Suburban Land Reserve and Craig Thueson, does not purport to transfer any
TDR certificates. The deed makes no reference to TDRs. The City's records show that
Suburban Land Reserve received 77 TDR certificates and transferred 67 of those
certificates to The Preserve at Mapleton and the other 10 to John May who has no
connection to this lawsuit. Exhibit 3 ¶ 19 & Exhibit A.
REPLY: Respondent does not dispute Petitioner's fact. Respondent admits the TDRS
were transferred in relation to the sale of the land. Therefore, the fact is admitted.
11.

The same day, Craig Thueson transferred the Preserve Development

Property, water rights and TDRs to The Preserve at Mapleton Development Company, LLC
("The Preserve at Mapleton") via a Special Warranty Deed. See Exhibit 5, Special
Warranty Deed.
RESPONSE: Again, LD III's Exhibit 5, a Special Warranty Deed conveying property
between Craig Thueson and The Preserve at Mapleton, does not purport to transfer any
TDR certificates. The deed makes no reference to TDRs. The Preserve at Mapleton
received 67 TDRs directly from Suburban Land Reserve. Exhibit 3 ¶ 19 & Exhibit A.
REPLY: Respondent once again fails to dispute this fact. Respondent admits that TDRs
were transferred. Therefore, the fact is admitted.
14.

As part of approving the transfer of the Development Agreement and

approving the plats for a subdivision, Mapleton City changed the zoning of The Preserve
property from A-2 to a PRC zone. See Complaint at ¶ 18 and Answer at ¶ 18.

13

RESPONSE: While the City does not dispute that the City changed the Preserve
Property's zoning from A-2 (TDR) to PRC-4, LD III omitted several key facts, including: (a)
the rezoning was done at the express request of the Preserve at Mapleton; Exhibit 7,
Application for Rezoning; (b) the rezoning took place between 2006 and 2007, with several
steps, hearings, and ordinances involved, Exhibit 8, CC Meeting Minutes 5/17/06, Exhibit
9, Ordinance 2006-15, Exhibit 10, CC Meeting 7/8/07, Exhibit 11, Ordinance 2007-18; (c)
the City and the Preserve at Mapleton entered into a Memorandum of Understanding in
2007 regarding development and zoning of the Preserve Property, Exhibit 2, Memorandum
of Understanding; (d) the text of the PRC zoning ordinance that was applied to the
Preserve Property was drafted by the Preserve at Mapleton, Exhibit 10, at 3-4, Exhibit 12,
CC Staff Report 8/7/07, at 1-2; (e) the PRC zoning text that was proposed and adopted
restricted development of the Preserve Property to 92 units and expressly prohibited any
increase in density, Exhibit 11, at 5 (18.82D.110), Exhibit 12, Attachment 2, at 5
(18.82D.110). The City addresses these events more fully below.
REPLY: Once again Respondent does not dispute the statement of fact and therefore it
is admitted. Respondent attempts to posit its own facts in a response to a statement of
fact which is not in accord with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure and therefore any
statement of fact made in the response should be stricken.
15.

On May 17, 2006, the Mapleton City Council approved a change of the

zoning of the Preserve Development Property from A-2 to PRC-4 and the action was
formalized as Mapleton City Council Resolution No. 2006-15. See Exhibit 7, Mapleton
City Council Meeting Minutes and Exhibit 8, Ordinance No. 2006-15.
RESPONSE: Again, the City does not dispute that this event took place, but that
LD III has omitted much of the relevant and material surrounding facts described more fully
in the City's response to statement of fact 14.
REPLY: Respondent admits the statement of fact and therefore there is no dispute.
Petitioner objects to the use by Respondent of a response to Petitioner's facts as a way
to posit its own facts. Any such facts should be stricken.
16.

On December 6, 2006, The Preserve at Mapleton executed a promissory

note and a Deed of Trust in favor of LD III, LLC. ("LD, III"). The Deed of Trust encumbered
14

the Preserve Development Property. See Exhibits 9 and 10, Trust Deed Note and Trust
Deed with Assignment of Rents.
RESPONSE: The City does not dispute that the Preserve at Mapleton executed the
documents. Nothing in those documents references or incorporates an assignment of the
Development Agreement or the TDR certificates that were issued to Suburban Land
Reserve and transferred to the Preserve at Mapleton. Exhibit 13, Trust Deed Note; Exhibit
14, Trust Deed.
REPLY: This fact is undisputed. The response by Respondent is nothing but legal
argument and is not allowed in a response to a statement of fact and should therefore be
stricken.
24.

Maps of the Preserve Development Property from Mapleton City show that

the Preserve Development Property was designated A-2 (TDR-R) from 2003 until 2007.
See Exhibit 14, zoning maps of Mapleton City.
RESPONSE: As described by Sean Conroy, the Mapleton City Community Director,
the official zoning maps of Mapleton City show as follows: "The maps dated 2003 and June
20, 2006, show that the Preserve Property was designated A-2 (TDR-R), meaning it was
eligible for development with TDRs. The maps dated May 7, 2007, August 29, 2008,
March 21, 2012, and February 2, 2017, show the Preserve Property zoned as PRC-4 with
no TDR overlay, indicating that it was not eligible for development with TDRs." Exhibit 3
¶¶ 23-25 & Exhibit B.
REPLY: Petitioner fails to dispute the statement of fact and in fact confirms it. Therefore
the fact is admitted. The response by Respondent is nothing but legal argument which is
inappropriate for a response to a statement of fact and therefore should be stricken.
25.

The Mapleton City Ordinance for PRC zones specifically allows the use of

TDRs to increase the density in PRC zone. See Exhibit 15, PRC Planned Residential
Community at §18.82.070.
RESPONSE: The PRC zone is designed to apply to individual developments in
order to achieve a particular development theme, and it requires both a zoning text
15

designed specifically for that development and a development agreement with the City.
MCC § 18.82.010. 030, 150. The zoning ordinance must "indicate the total density of the
project: and "that no new subdivision lots shall be permitted beyond that which was
originally approved, for the purpose of increasing the density." MCC § 18.82.030(K).
Likewise, the development agreement must "detail[] the entire project [and] the total
amount of units or lots." MCC § 18.82.150. Thus while the City's ordinance setting forth
the guidelines for PRC zones generally provides that TDRs may be used to increase the
overall density," it is the development agreement and the PRC zone text that applies to the
specific development that governs the actual density allowed on the lot, including whether
TDRs are necessary to achieve that density. The PRC-4 zoning ordinance that applies
specifically to the Preserve Property provides that "[t]he total density allowed in the
Preserve at Mapleton PRC-4 zone is ninety two (92) individual building lots and common
area buildings. No new subdivision lots shall be permitted beyond those originally
approved for the purpose of increasing this density." MCC § 18.82D.110 (emphasis
added). Because the underlying density allowed on the Preserve Property under the City's
general plan is two acres per lot, and because the Preserve Property encompasses 240
acres of property, no TDRs were or are necessary to develop 92 units, the maximum
number of lots allowed under the current PRC-4 zone. Exhibit 15, CC Staff Report 5/3/17,
at 4-5; Exhibit 16, CC Staff Report 6/7/17, at 2.
REPLY: Once again Respondent fails to dispute the factual statement and therefore it is
admitted. Respondent simply uses the response as an opportunity to posit its own facts
and to make legal argument. Such is not permitted by the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure
and therefore the response should be stricken.
DISCUSSION
Summary judgment is only proper when there is no genuine issue as to any material
fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. See Rule 56(c),
U.R.C.P.; Gold Standard, Inc. v. Getty Oil Co., 915 P.2d 1060, 1063 (Utah 1996) (quoting
Billings v. Union Bankers Ins. Co., 819 P.2d 801, 805 n.2 (Utah 1991)). As is evident from
the foregoing response by Mapleton City to Petitioner's statement of facts, there is no issue
of material fact regarding Petitioner's Motion for Summary Judgment and the Court can
rule as a matter of law. Regarding Mapleton City's statement of facts, there are material

16

issues and disputes regarding those facts and therefore there are no undisputed material
facts upon which to base summary judgment for Mapleton City.
I.

The Referendum Was Improper and Therefore Not Binding

On June 7, 2017, even though it was unnecessary and redundant, the Mapleton City
Council again designated the Preserve Property as a TDR receiving site. Subsequently,
opponents of that decision were allowed to present a referendum on the November 2017
ballot which, if passed, would reverse the Mapleton City Council's decision.

The

referendum passed. It is Mapleton City's position the action it took was reversed and
therefore, the Preserve Property does not possess the TDR receiving site zoning overlay
status.
However, Mapleton City should never have allowed the referendum vote to occur.
It was illegal and can have no effect. Utah Code Annotated § 20A-7-601 deals with local
referenda procedures. Utah Code Annotated § 20A-7-601(1) provides that "a person
seeking to have a local law passed by the local legislative body submitted to a vote of
the people …." (Emphasis added.) It is important to note it refers to a "local law." Utah
Code Annotated § 20A-7-101(13) defines a "local law": "(a)'Local law' includes: (i) an
ordinance; (ii) a resolution; (iii) a master plan; (iv) a comprehensive zoning regulation
adopted by ordinance or resolution; or (v) other legislative action of a local legislative body.
(b) 'Local law' does not include an individual property zoning decision." Utah Code
Ann. 20A-7-101(13) (emphasis added).
Mapleton City has throughout their pleadings referred to the TDR-R overlay status
as a zoning status. The action by the Mapleton City Council to apply a TDR-R status to

17

the Preserve Property was therefore an individual property zoning decision. It only applied
to the individual Preserve Property. It was not eligible for a referendum vote and the 2017
action by the Mapleton City Council in approving the TDR-R status for the Preserve
Property is not affected by the referendum. The referendum is invalid and not binding.
Therefore, the Preserve Property retains a TDR-R overlay zoning designation.
II.

The Earlier TDR-R Overlay Designation for The Preserve Was Never
Legally Removed

Mapleton City's primary argument is that the Preserve Property does not possess
a TDR-R overlay status because it was removed in 2006/2007 when the underlying zoning
was changed from A-2 to PRC-4. Mapleton City fails to offer any evidence showing the
TDR-R overlay status was removed in conformity with Utah law. Mapleton City conflates
the issues of zoning status and TDR overlay status. Mapleton City fails to demonstrate
when the TDR-R status was specifically removed and what formalities were observed.
Rather, it argues that the it "impliedly repealed the previous TDR-R designation."
An implied change of the TDR-R overlay status, without public notice and a public
meeting in which that issue is addressed, fails to comply with Utah law. Utah Code
specifically states that "only a legislative body may enact land use regulation." Utah Code
Ann. § 10-9a-501(1). The removal of the TDR-R overlay status by a city administrator or
city staff could not be legal. Utah Code further states the term "land use regulation" means
"an ordinance, law, code, map, resolution, specification, fee, or rule that governs the use
or development of land." Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-103(29). As defined by the statute, the
removal of a TDR-R status is a land use regulation. Only the Mapleton City Council can
enact land use legislation.
18

However, the Mapleton City Council never specifically removed the TDR-R status
for the Preserve Property. The only action taken by the Mapleton City Council was to
rezone the Preserve Property from A-2 to PRC-4 and the subsequent alteration of the city
map by city staff.
Contrary to Mapleton City's arguments, rezoning a parcel may change the zoning
classification, but it does not affect its TDR overlay status. There is difference between a
zoning classification and a TDR-R overlay status. The TDR overlay status "overlays" the
zoning classification. Therefore, as set forth in Mapleton City Ordinances, a piece of
property may be zoned A-2 with a TDR-R overlay status, it may be zoned CE-1 with a
TDR-S overlay status, or among other possibilities, a piece of property may be zoned PRC4 with a TDR-R overlay status, which is what happened here.
Mapleton City could not "impliedly" remove the TDR-R status of the Preserve
Property, especially when it received valuable consideration (title to 76 acres) for the
designation in the first place. Such a result is repugnant to justice and equity, and is not
supported by Utah law.
Utah law requires that before any land use regulation is adopted by a municipality,
it must provide notice and hold a public hearing. See Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-502(1) and
(2). Mapleton City admits that it did not do so. Instead, Mapleton City argues that when
it rezoned the Preserve Property from A-2 to PRC-4, the TDR-R overlay was impliedly
removed. Mapleton City cannot produce any document to show the removal of the TDR-R
overlay was discussed in any public meeting, or that notice of a meeting in which removal
of the TDR-R overlay status of the Preserve Property was on the agenda. The TDR-R

19

status of the Preserve Property was never properly removed. It is only convenient now in
this litigation for Mapleton City to argue that it was "impliedly" removed, when in fact such
action is illegal and never took place.
Mapleton City admits, and cites Utah case law for the proposition, that under Utah
law implied repeals are not favored. "As a general proposition, implied repeals are not
favored and are found only if there is a manifest inconsistency or conflict between the
earlier and later statutes." Ellis v. Utah State Retirement Board, 757 P.2d 882, 884
(Utah Ct. App. 1988). The Ellis court went on to state, "[s]ubsequently enacted statutes
relating to the same subject matter as previous statutes are, if possible, to be construed
so as to make the later enactments harmonious with the former provisions." Id. (citations
omitted).
Mapleton City fails to show a "manifest inconsistency or conflict" between the earlier
and later statutes. It is not inconsistent for a property to be zoned PRC-4 with a TDR-R
overlay. In fact, the Mapleton City Ordinance for PRC zones specifically allows the use of
TDRs to increase the density in PRC zone. See Exhibit 15 to Petitioner's Motion for
Summary Judgment, PRC Planned Residential Community at §18.82.070. Therefore,
there is no manifest inconsistency or conflict and the doctrine of implied repeal cannot be
applied.
III.

The Development Agreement's Terms Run with the Land

Mapleton City argues that the Development Agreements terms are personal to
Suburban Land Reserve and Mapleton City and do not run with the land. To support its
argument, Mapleton City relies on paragraph 10 of the Development Agreement, titled

20

"Assignment of Agreement." However, paragraph 10 speaks in terms of when the owner
sells the property. It states that "in the event the Owner intends to sell the Property or any
portion thereof to any other party, Owner shall advise city of such intention. Only upon the
express prior written approval by the City, shall any rights of Owner with respect to the
portion of the Property being sold be deemed transferred to the new owner thereof." See
Development Agreement, ¶ 10 (Emphasis added).
Here, the Preserve Property was not purchased from the owner. LD III was forced
to foreclose on its Deed of Trust. It is not a purchaser from the owner. Rather, LD III is a
secured creditor that was forced to foreclose on the property. While LD III is a successor
in interest, it was not a purchaser and therefore paragraph 10 does not apply.
Further, paragraph 19 is titled "Successors and Assigns." It states the "Agreement
shall be binding on the successors and assigns of Owner." It then addresses issues when
there is an approved purchaser. There is no requirement that a successor or assign must
be an approved purchaser.
Further, paragraph 21 is titled "Recording of Agreement." It states, "the ordinance
rezoning the Property shall be finally executed and this Agreement or a memorandum
providing public notice of the existence of this Agreement shall be recorded immediately
as a covenant running with the Property herein described in order to put prospective
purchasers or other interested parties on notice as to the terms and provisions hereof."
(Emphasis added).
Mapleton City points to the language of the Development Agreement which states
that the rights under the Development Agreement are "personal to Owner and shall only

21

run with the land so long as Owner or a company which is affiliated with or under common
ownership and control of Owner shall own and be the Owner of the Property."

If this

statement in the Development Agreement controls, there would never have been a reason
to record the Development Agreement or a memorandum to give prospective purchasers
or other interested parties notice of the terms of the Agreement. Suburban Land Reserve
obviously knew of the terms of the Agreement, as did Mapleton City. Therefore, the only
reason to record the Development Agreement would have been so others knew that the
terms that applied to the property. Mapleton City failed to record the Development
Agreement and therefore, LD III was not on notice of its terms.
Rather, to harmonize the document with itself, it makes sense to construe it as
requiring only a purchase of the property to be approved by Mapleton City, but acquiring
the property through foreclosure not subject to approval by Mapleton City. It then makes
sense that the recording of the document or another document giving notice of the
Development Agreement's terms is required. If the Development Agreement is personal
to Suburban Land Reserve and Mapleton City, there is no reason to record the document
to give public notice.
Mapleton City cites several cases for the proposition that acquisition of property that
is the subject of an agreement does not make the acquiring party a successor or assignee
of the agreement. Mapleton City first cites West v. Case, 2006 UT App 325, 142 P.3d 576.
However, this matter is readily distinguishable from West. In West, a party was attempting
to hold another party, who was not part of the agreement, liable for the obligations imposed
by the agreement.

Id.

That is not the case here.

22

Mapleton City, a party to the

Development Agreement, is attempting to avoid performance of its duty under the
Development Agreement. Also, there is no indication in West that the agreement stated
it ran with the land or that it was a right vested in the property. Here, the Development
Agreement states it is to run with the property and that it is a vested right, and that it was
to be recorded. Therefore, West is not applicable to this matter.
Mapleton City also relies on Hansen v. Green River Group,748 P.2d 1102 (Utah Ct.
App. 1998) to support their argument that the Development Agreement does not apply to
LD III. Once again, the case cited is readily distinguishable from this case. In Hansen, the
Hansens claimed a filled in real estate purchase contract evolved into an express
assignment of all right and duties and an express assumption of all debt and payment
obligations of a prior similar contract. See Id. at 1104. There is no mention of any terms
running with the land or any vested rights in the property, as there are here. Therefore,
Hansen is not applicable to this situation.
Mapleton City also relies on Oquirrh Associates v. First National Leasing Company,
888 P.2d 659 (Utah Ct. App.1994). However, in Oquirrh Associates, it was argued that the
terms of a real estate purchase contract were assigned via a quit claim deed. See Id. at
663. The court found the quit claim deed did not assign the contract when it contained
language that it applied to "heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the
respective parties hereto and the benefits shall inure to the Buyer or its assignee." Id.
Once again in that case, a party was attempting to enforce obligations imposed by the
contract on a non-party to the agreement. See Id. The court found the contract referring
to heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the parties "can only refer

23

to those who succeed to one party's interest in the contract through inheritance,
assignment, or the like." Id. (emphasis added). The court did not give any guidance on
what it meant by "or the like."
The issue in Oquirrh Associates was very different than the issue presented here.
The key issue in Oquirrh Associates concerned what rights passed via a quit claim deed.
See Id. This matter deals with a foreclosure, a covenant that runs with the land and a
trustee's deed, not a quit claim deed.
Mapleton City argues that the terms of the Development Agreement cannot run with
the land because "in order for a covenant to run with the land, it must be recorded."
Mapleton City cites Flying Diamond Oil v. Newton Sheep Co., 776 P.2d 618 (Utah 1989)
to support its proposition that an agreement must be recorded to run with the land.
Mapleton City refers the Court to page 628 to support its statement that the court found the
agreement had to recorded to run with the land. However, there is no language in Flying
Diamond Oil that states a covenant that runs with the land must be recorded.
The Flying Diamond Oil court stated that for a covenant to run with the land, "(1)
[t]he covenant must 'touch and concern' the land; (2) the covenanting parties must intend
the covenant to run with the land; and (3) there must be privity of estate." Id. at 622
(citations omitted). There is no mention of a requirement that it must be recorded.
The touch and concern requirement focuses on the nature of the burdens and
benefits of the covenant.
What is essential is that the burdens and benefits created must relate to the
land and the ownership of an interest in it; the burdens and benefits received
are not the personal duties or rights of the parties to a covenant that exist
independently from the ownership of an interest in the land.
24

Id. at 623 (citations omitted).
The distinction between covenants which run with the land and covenants
which are personal, must depend upon the effect of the covenant on the
legal rights which otherwise flow from ownership of land and which are
connected with the land. The problem then is: Does the covenant in purpose
and effect substantially alter these rights?
Id.
The court added, "[t]hus, to touch and concern the land, a covenant must bear upon
the use and enjoyment of the land and be of the kind that the owner of an estate or interest
in land may make because of his ownership right." Id. "If the performance of a covenant
can be enforced regardless of one's status as owner of an interest in the land, the
covenant is personal …." Id. at 624 (citations omitted). "A real covenant bestows a benefit
or imposes a burden only on the rights of a landholder, as landholder." Id. Further, "The
test for whether a covenant touches and concerns the land is whether it enhances the
land's value …." Id.
Here, it is clear the terms if the Development Agreement touch and concern the
land. The density and the TDR-R status certainly relate to the land. The terms of the
Development Agreement alter the rights that flow from the ownership of the property. The
terms of the Development Agreement affect the use and enjoyment of the property and the
terms of the Development Agreement can only be enforced by the land owner. The terms
of the Development Agreement certainly enhance the value of the property by giving it a
vested right to develop 136 units and to be a TDR receiving site.
The second requirement is that the original parties must have intended that the
covenant run with the land. "An express statement in the document creating the covenant
that the parties intend to create a covenant running with the land is usually dispositive of
25

the intent issue. The parties' intent may also be implied by the nature of the covenant
itself. Id. at 627 (citations omitted). Here, the Development Agreement states that it is
meant to run with the property. Further, the nature of the terms of the Development
Agreement show it was meant to run with the land. First, Mapleton City received, and
retains to this day, title to 76 acres of property it received as consideration. In return,
Mapleton City gave the Preserve Development Property a density of 136 units. Mapleton
City has kept the consideration it received but now seeks to eliminate the consideration it
gave for the 76 acres. The covenant running with the land prevents that unjust result.
The last requirement is there must have been privity of estate between the original
parties. There is no argument that Suburban Land Reserve and Mapleton City were in
privity. However, the court in Flying Diamond Oil stated, "a covenant created in connection
with a conveyance of an estate from one of the parties to another" creates privity of estate.
Id. at 628. Here, Suburban Land Reserve conveyed property to Mapleton City.
There is no requirement that the covenant be recorded. Further, if there were,
Mapleton City is the party who failed to record the Development Agreement. It cannot now
complain that is was not recorded. To do so at this point invokes the doctrine of laches,
which precludes such an argument. Accordingly, as set forth above, the terms of the
Development Agreement run with the land and can be enforced by LD III.
Lastly, LD III believes that the Development Agreement was prepared by Mapleton
City. Therefore, it should be construed against Mapleton City and any questions regarding
its intent resolved in LD III favor. Therefore, any questions about whether the Development
Agreement runs with the land should be resolved in LD III's favor.

26

IV.

The Development Agreement Grants the Right to Build 136 Individual
Units on The Preserve Property

Contrary to Mapleton City's argument and its reading of the Development
Agreement, it clearly gives the Preserve Property the right to have 136 building lots.
Paragraph 6 of the Development Agreement, titled "Approved Density" states that there
is a
vested right to develop a maximum of one hundred thirty-six (136) single
family residential units on individual lots. Seventy (70) of such units shall be
located in the interior of the Property as shown on the Master Plan and shall
be constructed on smaller lots organized as a planned unit development to
permit the common maintenance of landscaping ad other commonly owned
improvements constructed upon applicable portions of the Property.
See Development Agreement, ¶ 6. It also states, "[s]aid lots shall be a minimum of .64
acres in size, net streets, roads and other dedications." Id.
Contrary to Mapleton City's arguments, the Development Agreement does not state
that TDRs must be used or that the issuance of the TDRs to Suburban Land Reserve were
the consideration for the transfer of title to 76 acres to Mapleton City. Rather, the
Development Agreement states that the Preserve Property is approved for 136 units build
on individual lots, with a minimum lot size of .64 acres. The right to build 136 units was
"vested." Now, Mapleton City attempts to take away that "vested" right.
In paragraph 4, the Development Agreement addresses "Reserve Legislative
Powers." It states:
Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the future exercise of the police powers
of City in enacting zoning, subdivision, development, growth management,
platting, environmental, open space, transportation and other and use plans,
policies, ordinances and regulations after the date of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the retained power of City to enact such legislation under its
police power, such legislation shall not alter Owner's rights as set forth herein
27

unless facts and circumstances are present which meet the compelling,
countervailing public interest exception to the vested rights doctrine as set
forth in Western Land Equities, Inc. v. City of Logan, 617 P.2d 388 (Utah,
1988) or successor case law. Any such proposed change affecting Owner's
rights shall be of general application to all development activity in the
City. Unless City declares an emergency, Owner shall be entitled to prior
written notice and an opportunity to be heard with respect to the proposed
change and its applicability to th Project.
See Development Agreement at ¶4. The Development Agreement clearly states that the
right to build 136 units is a vested right and that the only way Mapleton City can remove
the right to 136 units is through the exercise of its police powers and through a change that
is applicable to all activity in Mapleton, not just the Preserve Property.
Mapleton City, through its attorney, in a public forum, admitted that the Preserve
Property has the right to build 136 units. Mapleton City's attorney, Eric Johnson, stated
"that Plats A, B, and C were subject to a development agreement for 136 lots and if you
continued the additional plats you have a total of 191 lots which is a higher density than
the current applicant is applying for." The statement, made through Mapleton City's
counsel, is an admission by Mapleton City that the Preserve Development Property has
the right for 136 lots. Mapleton City argues that in return for receiving 76 acres of real
property on Maple Mountain, that it issued 77 TDRs.

However, the Development

Agreement relied upon by Mapleton City does not mention TDRs. It speaks in terms of
transferring density to the Preserve Property. There is absolutely no mention of TDRs.
V.

Statute of Limitations

Mapleton City argues LD III is foreclosed from challenging the TDR overlay status
of The Preserve because it did not do so within 30 days after a decision or enactment.
Mapleton City argues the decision or enactment took place in May 2006 when the City
28

approved rezoning the Preserve Property as a PRC-4 zone. Mapleton City argues that
because the application for the rezone requested a rezone to PRC-4 and not to PRC-4
(TDR-R). Its argument ignores that there was no need to ask for a rezone to PRC-4 (TDRR) because the property already possessed TDR-R status. It did not have to be rezoned
to be a TDR receiving site. Contrary to Mapleton City's argument, whether TDR were
required for a particular development proposal does not affect whether the property
possessed TDR-R status.
Further, LD III cannot be prevented from challenging the action taken by Mapleton
City when such action was taken in secrecy, without any notice or public hearing. How was
LD III to know that its rights were at issue when there was no hearing regarding the
removal of the TDR(R) status. Mapleton City in essence argues that because the issue
of the repeal of the TDR-R status for the Preserve Property was never discussed in a
public meeting by the Mapleton City Council and it was "impliedly" repealed, that LD III is
now prevented from challenging the illegal action taken by Mapleton City.
Mapleton City argues that "it is clear that the City treated the 2006 application for
a rezone request to remove the TDR-R overlay." Mapleton City fails to set forth how it was
made clear at the time. The only evidence it can point to is its own action in removing the
TDR-R overlay status and the change it made to the city map. Further, the issue is not
how Mapleton city treated the 2006 application. The issue is that Mapleton City could not
remove the TDR-R status for the Preserve Property without public notice and a public
meeting regarding that issue. Mapleton City cannot produce any evidence the removal of

29

the TDR-R status was ever noticed or discussed in a public meeting. They simply
arbitrarily changed the city maps, without the required steps mandated by the Utah Code.
Further, Mapleton City fails to consider that the Mapleton City Council designated
the Preserve Property as a TDR-R site in 2017. A referendum vote took place November
7, 2018. This action was filed November 14, 2018. Therefore, it is not barred by any
relevant statute of limitations.
The removal of the TDR-R status for the Preserve Property that Mapleton City
argues occurred in 2007 was never properly noticed and there was no public meeting as
required by Utah law. Mapleton City cannot act in secret and then complain LD III did not
act in time to protect its rights.
VI.

Statute of Frauds

Mapleton City also argues that the Statute of Frauds does not apply to the removal
of the TDR-R status for the Preserve Property. However Mapleton City fails to recognize
that it received valuable consideration in the form of title to 76 acres in return for the TDRR overlay status. Further, Mapleton City cites case law that a zoning of property is not
considered a property interest. However, once again Mapleton City, when it suits it,
conflates zoning with TDR-R status. As previously set forth, TDR status is a zoning overlay
and not a zoning designation. The existence of the TDR-R status is a valuable property
interest that is not a zoning interest. Further, Mapleton City ignores that the TDR-R status
became a "vested" property right that ran with the land.

30

VII.

Estoppel

Mapleton City also argues that LD III is estopped from claiming the City has
wrongfully denied its request to a particular density. Mapleton City argues LD III is bound
by its predecessor's in interest actions or inactions. However, it does not present any
support for its claim. Mapleton City further argues LD III failed to act to protect its interest.
Such an argument ignores that Mapleton City failed to record the Development Agreement
and therefore LD III was not put on notice of its terms. It had no reason to take any action.
Mapleton City continues to argue that a change from an A-2 zoning to a PRC-4 zoning in
some way affected the TDR overlay status, even when the TDR overlay status was not
mentioned in any of the public meetings or in any of the documents. LD III had no notice
Mapleton intended for its rights to be in peril.
Mapleton City also argues it acted in reasonable reliance on The Preserve at
Mapleton's actions. Once again, the Preserve at Mapleton is not LD III. Mapleton relied
on nothing from LD III. Lastly, Mapleton City argues it would suffer injury. The injury it
posits is that it may be sued by LD III. Their reasoning is preposterous. If LD III is allowed
to develop the Preserve Property pursuant to the Development Agreement, it would have
no reason or grounds to sue Mapleton City. An imagined injury to Mapleton City is purely
speculative and is unsupported.
CONCLUSION
The facts are uncontested in this matter. It is uncontested that Mapleton City
received title to 76 acres of property and in return Mapleton City granted a vested right to
construct 136 units on the Preserve Property and Mapleton City designated the Preserve

31

Property as a TDR receiving site. It is uncontested that Mapleton City never noticed a
meeting or held a meeting in which the removal of the TDR receiving site status was
discussed in a public meeting. Further, it is clear the that referendum vote which occurred
in November was not legal and is of no effect. Therefore, the Mapleton City Council's
action in re-designating the Preserve Property a TDR receiving site is still applicable,
despite the result o the illegal referendum vote. It is clear that the covenants regarding the
TDR receiving site status and the right to construct 136 units on the Preserve Property run
with the land.

Therefore, the Court should grant Petitioner's Motion for Summary

Judgment and deny Respondent's Motion for Summary Judgment.
ORAL ARGUMENT
Petitioner hereby request oral argument.
DATED this 6th day of April, 2018.
NELSON, SNUFFER, DAHLE & POULSEN, P.C.
/s/ Denver C. Snuffer, Jr.
Denver C. Snuffer, Jr.
Attorney for Petitioner

32

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on this 6th day of April, 2018, I served a true an correct copy of
the foregoing MEMORANDUM OPPOSING RESPONDENT'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT AND REPLY MEMORANDUM IN SUPPORT OF PETITIONER'S MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT on the following by mailing the same, United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
Eric Johnson
BLAISDELL, CHURCH & JOHNSON, LLC
5995 South Redwood Road
Salt Lake City, Utah 84123
eric@bcjlaw.net

/s/ Denver C. Snuffer, Jr.
Denver C. Snuffer, Jr.

33

EXHIBIT 1

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

IN THE FOURTH DISTRICT COURT, UTAH COUNTY
PROVO DEPARTMENT, STATE OF UTAH
________________________________________________
LESLIE D. MOWER, an
Individual, et al.

:
:
:
Plaintiffs,
:
TRANSCRIPT OF
:
JUDGE'S RULING
-vs:
:
DAVID R. SIMPSON an
:
individual, et al.,
:
Case No. 090403844
:
Judge Samuel D. McVey
Defendants.
:
:
and
:
:
KOAMALU PLANTATION
:
INVESTMENT, LLC, et al. :
:
Rule 19 Defendants. :
________________________________________________
Date:

November 30, 2012

1
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

A P P E A R A N C E S
For Plaintiffs:

BART J. BAILEY
WILLIAM T. JENNINGS
Bailey & Jennings
585 South State Street
Orem, Utah 84058
Telephone: 801-426-8600

For Defendants CRAIG CARLILE
Simpson, et al.:
Ray Quinney & Nebeker
86 N. University Avenue, Suite 430
Provo, Utah 84601-4420
Telephone: 801-342-2400

2
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

1

November 30, 2012

2
3

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

2:30 p.m.

P R O C E E D I N G S
THE COURT:

Looking at the irreparable harm

4

standard, there's an overlying--well, first of all,

5

the debris basin, the temporary restraining order is

6

released on that, because there's lack of evidence--

7

insufficient evidence to support it on that.

8

the parties have acknowledged that.

9

I think

Looking at the irreparable harm issue, the

10

overarching reason why you can't have a temporary

11

restraining order on these other things, that would be

12

the preserve, the Hawaii property, the water and the

13

bond, assuming that they are covered by the security

14

agreement, is that you have a security agreement

15

there, you have a--you have a remedy there and so you

16

don't need an extraordinary remedy.

17

temporary restraining order is denied on that basis.

18

Now, looking at some other grounds, let's

And so the

19

look at the Hawaii property.

20

evidence is that the managers are not doing anything

21

wrong, that Ms. Mower is secured on that, and she'll

22

have to be--she's entitled to be included in the

23

obligations.

24

things are going, I guess she can try and foreclose on

25

her interest.

Right now the only

If she doesn't like the things--way

But--but right now the preponderance of

3
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

1

evidence standard has not been met to show that

2

there's some type of breach of fiduciary duty there

3

for purposes of today's hearing.

4

And all of these rulings, of course, are just

5

for purposes of today's hearing.

6

all of this that you gents still have to do discovery,

7

but...

8

And I recognize in

With regard to the preserve, given the--given

9

the Utah Supreme Court's predilection to follow the

10

Restatements when there's Utah law on point, it would

11

appear that Ms. Mower does control the property under

12

that merger document.

13

all of her interest there and so you really can't find

14

irreparable harm.

15

again.

16

She's been able to take care of

She's--she is protected there,

Given the TDRs, the only evidence right now

17

is that those are not associated with the preserve.

18

We're looking at the city zoning map.

19

associated with the preserve, and so they're not--so I

20

think under the--under the issue of likelihood of

21

success on the merits, right now that standard has not

22

been met by the plaintiff--plaintiffs.

23

Those are not

The bond, it does--it does appear that it's

24

probably covered by the security agreement.

25

other hand, the funds came from the preserve.

On the
They

4
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

1

were a loan to the preserve and the funds ultimately

2

would be traced back to the lender, the plaintiffs.

3

But on the other hand, those funds came from the

4

preserve.

5

which would be the loan balance.

6

Those were deposited with preserve assets,

But on the other hand again, you gen--the

7

plaintiffs do have a security interest, it would

8

appear, in those.

9

have an interest in them, they don't necessarily own

10

them.

11

interest.

12

the likelihood of success on the merits standard.

13

They don't own them at this--they

They have to foreclose, I suppose, to get that
So then again, I don't really see meeting

The water, I think that the security interest

14

would appear to be broad enough to include that for

15

today's purposes, where it--but on the other hand, it

16

only includes it if--if the water shares are somehow--

17

I mean, they have to be associated with the property.

18

Otherwise, anything that the Simpsons own privately or

19

anything like that for another development in

20

conjunction with another partner or something of that

21

nature, you would have to say that the security

22

agreement would go out and sweep all of that in.

23

Now, the clause after--it says "appurtenant

24

or associated with the property" is pretty broad.

25

says irrigation ditches, water shares, so forth and so

It

5
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

1

on.

2

Mr. Warren indicated that the Mapleton water shares

3

had absolutely nothing to do with the preserve and

4

were all assigned elsewhere.

5

that there's a likelihood of success on the merits

6

there, based on his testimony.

7

that--that you're successful there.

But on the other hand, the testimony of

And so I don't think

And so I don't think

8

And so regarding the balance of harm, I'm not

9

really going to reach that standard, other than to say

10

that when you weigh the equities in this matter I

11

would agree that there is a potential for harm.

12

on the other hand, you have to link that back to the

13

irreparable harm standard and say that Ms. Mower has

14

an opportunity to prevent that harm with other

15

remedies that she has without resorting to an

16

extraordinary writ--an extraordinary remedy.

17

But

And then as far as the public policy--I would

18

agree that there's--there's probably a public policy

19

against letting someone waste or hide assets.

20

this case, the assets seem to me to be tied up under

21

the security agreement.

22

those to--and they're easily traceable, the water

23

shares; TDRs, if I'm wrong today; the--the Hawaii

24

property; the--you know, the--and again, the only

25

testimony today from Mr. Sumsion is that that property

But in

And so anybody that they sell

6
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

1

is tied up because the state won't do anything with it

2

unless Ms. Mower signs up for the agreement.

3

But--or the preserve, everybody would take--

4

take their interest subject to Ms. Mower's interest,

5

assuming she's the senior lienholder, and it appears

6

that she probably is.

7

we can say that there's any violation of public

8

interest in refusing to grant the TRO.

9

And so I really don't see where

So because there's an adequate remedy, which

10

defeats the irreparable harm standard; because on a

11

couple of these points there is not a likelihood of

12

success on the merits--for purposes of today's

13

hearing, that has not been shown, at least for--on the

14

evidence presented today; and because the balance of

15

harm--balancing the equities would not support issuing

16

a TRO, since again, relating back, Ms. Mower does have

17

an opportunity to foreclose out her interest and she

18

is protected by the secured interest laws, the Court

19

must deny the temporary restraining order.

20

Counsel has reques--counsel for defendants

21

has requested attorney's fees.

22

MR. BAILEY:

Your Honor, I--

23

THE COURT:

He'll have to submit a--

24

MR. BAILEY:

--neglected to address that.

25

THE COURT:

Okay.

Well, he's going to have

7
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

1

to submit an affidavit under Rule 72, because I'm not

2

going to make Calli stay here anymore tonight.

3

submit an affidavit.

4

on that, but that would be--it's typically done under

5

Rule 72, unless you want to cross-examine Mr. Carlile,

6

which I'll let you do--on that motion, which I would

7

let you do at some future date.

8

can submit a--you can submit an affidavit and we'll

9

take a look at it.

10
11

So

You've got to present evidence

So you can both--you

Okay?

Will you prepare an order on this,
Mr. Carlile?

12

MR. CARLILE:

13

THE COURT:

Yes.
Okay.

Thank you, gentlemen.

14

And, you know, at some point we ought to talk on this

15

about getting this case moved along, whether we need

16

to do either bellwether trials or bifurcated trials or

17

whatever, whatever is going to work.

18

have some discovery to do, but I am interested in--in

19

assisting you in whatever way I can to get issues

20

resolved in this matter.

21

I know you still

And I don't know whether you've talked about

22

mediation.

23

you got some real jerk mediator, maybe he'd be able to

24

get you together.

25

those, as you know.

Maybe that's just a hopeless task, but if

I don't know.

There are some of

Okay.

8
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

1
2

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

So any other questions about the ruling
today?

3

MR. CARLILE:

4

THE COURT:

5

okay?

6

Okay.

No, Your Honor.
Was it--was it--were my grounds

You understood the grounds?

7

Okay.

Very good.

MR. BAILEY:

Could I--just one clarification

9

THE COURT:

Yes.

10

MR. BAILEY:

The Court's going to hold the

8

11

there.

bond until the attorney's fee issue is--

12

THE COURT:

Well--well, yes, we'd do that.

13

don't know if you filed a surety bond or a property

14

bond or--

15

MR. BAILEY:

It was a cash bond.

16

THE COURT:

--money.

17

Okay.

18

issue is resolved.

It was a cash bond?

Yeah, we'll--we'll safe-keep that until that
Okay?

19

MR. BAILEY:

Okay.

20

THE COURT:

Thank you very much, gentlemen.

21

I

Court's in recess.

22

MR. CARLILE:

23

(The hearing was concluded.)

24

* * *

25

* * *

Thank you.

9
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

MOWER v. SIMPSON
November 30, 2012

TRANSCRIPT OF JUDGE'S RULING

C E R T I F I C A T E

STATE OF UTAH

)
: ss.

COUNTY OF SALT LAKE

)

I, Ann M. Love, a Registered Professional
Reporter and Notary Public within and for the State of
Utah, do hereby certify:
That the foregoing tape-recorded proceedings were
transcribed into typewriting under my direction and
supervision and that the foregoing pages contain a
true and correct transcription of said proceedings to
the best of my ability to do so.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my
name and seal this 30th day of January 2013.

_______________________________
ANN M. LOVE, RPR

10
ANN M. LOVE, RPR, CCR
801.538.2333

