11/27/21

Leslie Heppler
Department of Natural Resources
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
1594 West North Temple, Suite 1210
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
801-538-5257
Lheppler@utah.gov
Re:

Tree Farm, LLC, Notice of Intention to Commence Mining Operations

Dear Ms. Heppler,
I am writing to you regarding the recent Notice of Intention to Commence Mining Operations that Tree
Farm, LLC submitted to your office for consideration on November 15, 2021.
I am a member of the Richard’s Family Partnership as well as an individual landowner that will be
negatively impacted by the proposed mining operation. As way of background, the land that the
Richards Family Partnership owns was homesteaded by our great grandfather and currently consists of
about 650 acres and 27 water shares. My family and I have a deep connection to the area surrounding
Mount Aire and Parley’s Canyon.
With the proposed mining operation, I am extremely concerned about a the negative environmental,
aesthetic, and overall value of not only my personal land holdings, but of those in the Mount Aire
community.
Related to the environmental impact, Tree Farm, LLC itself states that the migratory patterns of big
game in the area is likely to be significantly impacted by the proposed mine due to how narrow Parley’s
Canyon in combination with the proposed scale the mine will eventually attain. Utah has a unique
ecosystem, and we all have a vested interest in ensuring that our wildlife is impacted as little as possible
by human interference. This mine will prove disruptive to the ecosystem in the direct vicinity and
potentially expanding into Millcreek Canyon. I would ask that the Department of Natural Resources
complete an extensive study to ensure that the impact on wildlife is duly considered. At this point,
frankly, it has not been considered properly.
The impact on wildlife migration is not the only environmental concern related to the proposed mining
operation, noise, air, and water pollution are of great concern. The mine is proposing to extract minerals
using blasting agents and heavy machinery. The increase in heavy traffic to haul the materials away adds
to the noise pollution. The very nature of a large-scale mining operation, such as the one that is
proposed, will obviously degrade the serenity and stillness that my family and countless others have
come to seek in Mount Aire.
As is well documented, the Salt Lake Valley and surrounding areas rank among the worst in the world in
terms of particulate matter in the air that we breathe (especially during winter months). The dust
generated from a large mining operation will add to this issue at a point in time when the State is

looking to reverse the issue. Do we really want to send more particulates into the air during the ski
season for tourists to breath and see? Dust from operations aside, adding hundreds of haul trucks to the
roads will add to the NOx pollution that is already an issue in the area. If you ignore the health
considerations of higher air pollution on all demographics, it is harder to ignore the actual economic
impact of being a State the accepts and contributes to increased air pollution at the expense of one of
its largest economic engines: Tourism.
Water pollution is of substantial concern as well. As the Director of Salt Lake Public Utilities has publicly
stated, the Notice of Intention fails to adequately address the potential for water pollution not only in
Parley’s Creek, but Millcreek as well. Both waterways provide important ecological and recreational
benefit. As The Director has stated, more information is needed from Tree Farm, LLC as to exactly what
their plan is to mitigate creek and ground water pollution.
In terms of surrounding land value, it has been well documented that the land within a mile surrounding
a limestone mining operation decreases on average 19%. My family has had a portion of our family land
up for sale and have received feedback now that the proposed mining operation is a significant
deterrent to prospective buyers. In addition, Tree Farm, LLC did not properly notify adjacent
landowners. As of the writing of this letter, the Richards Family Partnership did not receive written
notice from Tree Farm or its’ counsel. We were made aware of the filing and Notice of Intention via a
local news story. Due to that fact, we feel that the process has been rushed and has not been properly
performed in good faith.
I am pleading with you to please not rush a decision on the Notice of Intention to Commence Mining
Operations submitted by Tree Farm, LLC. It does not appear that organization has seriously and properly
considered the potential impacts that this operation would have on the area. Please help protect what
makes Utah great; the natural beauty of our canyons.
Respectfully,

Jill VomDorp
8278 S Resaca Drive L7
Sandy, UT 84070
801-518-5008

CC: Spencer J. Cox (Governor), Ms. Jani Iwamoto (State Senator District 4), Mr. Doug Owens (State
Representative District 36), Ms. Jenny Wilson (Mayor – Salt Lake County), Jeff Silvestrini (Mayor –
Millcreek City), Ms. Ann Granato (Salt Lake County Council District 4), Ms. Laurie Stringham (Salt Lake
County Council At Large), Mr. Richard Snelgrove (Salt Lake County Council At Large), Mr. Jim Bradley
(Salt Lake County Council At Large).

