FILED
APRIL 01 2022
SECRETARY, BOARD OF
OIL, GAS & MINING

BEFORE THE BOARD OF OIL, GAS AND MINING
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
STATE OF UTAH

IN THE MATTER OF
CORRESPONDENCE RECEIVED
FROM THE PUBLIC REQUESTING
AN EMERGENCY ORDER BE
ISSUED PROHIBITING A CERTAIN
SMALL MINE OR A MORATORIUM
BE ISSUED ON SMALL AND
LARGE MINE APPLICATIONS

ORDER DENYING REQUESTS
FOR ISSUANCE OF AN
EMERGENCY ORDER
Docket No. 2022-009
Cause No. S9999999

Following the Board of Oil, Gas & Mining’s (“Board”) regularly scheduled March
23, 2022 Public Hearing, the Board received numerous generalized submissions from
members of the public requesting either an emergency order preventing further
mining in Parley’s Canyon, Utah1 or a moratorium be placed on all small and/or large
mine applications (“Emergency Requests”). The majority of the Emergency Requests
took the form of letters and emails. While these Emergency Requests vary in terms of
specificity, numerous submissions contained the same general request for relief:
I am writing to request that you issue an emergency order according to the
requirements and procedures of the Title 63G, Chapter 4, administrative
procedures act in relation to the proposed Tree Farm LLC mining
operation.
See e.g., Denise Morgan Request, dated March 24, 2022.

1

Apart from the broader request for a mining application moratorium, the Board interprets the requests received for
issuance of an emergency order to be tied exclusively to the Tree Farm, LLC (“Tree Farm”) mining application(s) and
or planned mining operations.

1

Similarly, the Board received requests asking for a moratorium on all small and
large mine applications:
I am asking you today, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 40-6-10(2), to issue
an emergency order for a SMA and LMO moratorium. Doing so will allow
the public, companies, cities, and counties an opportunity to engage with
the Division and Board under new policies and rules to vet, evaluate, and
mitigate the impacts of small and large mining operations, especially in
Class 1 and 2 counties.
See e.g., Andrew W. Smith Request, dated March 23, 2022.
The concerns expressed by the citizens submitting Emergency Requests
centered on the following concerns relating to mining operations: air quality, fugitive
dust, water use, increased heavy truck traffic, fire hazards, impacts on wildlife and
aesthetics. The Board and/or the Division of Oil, Gas & Mining (“Division”) received
approximately thirty-one (31) Emergency Requests following the March 2022 Public
Hearing. It is the purpose and intent of this Order to address all of the Emergency
Requests received by the Board and Division following the March 23, 2022 Public
Hearing.
Board Filing Requirements
Per the Board’s administrative rules, proceedings are to be commenced through
the filing of either a “Notice of Agency Action” if an administrative matter is initiated
by the Board or Division, or a “Request for Agency Action” if an administrative matter
is commenced by an affected party. See Utah Admin. Code. R.641-104-100.120-122.
The exception to these pleading requirements is for “Emergency Orders” permitted
under Utah. Admin. Code. R.641-109-400. The Board’s “Emergency Orders” rule
provides:

2

Notwithstanding the other provisions of these regulations, the Director of
the Division or any member of the Board is authorized to issue an
emergency order without notice or hearing, in accordance with the
applicable statute. The emergency order will remain in effect no longer
than until the next regular meeting of the Board, or such shorter period of
time as will be prescribed by statute.
Utah Admin. Code R. 641-109-400.
There are several statutes within the Utah Mined Land Reclamation Act that
discuss emergency orders. See Utah Code Ann. §§ 40-8-4(9) (definition); 40-8-6 (power
to issue). Both statutes indicate the Board has the authority to issue emergency
orders “according to the requirements and provisions of Title 63G, Chapter 4,
Administrative Procedures Act.” Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-6(3).
Although many Emergency Requests do not cite to any statutory authority,
numerous Emergency Requests contain the statutory reference to “Title 63G, Chapter
4, Administrative Procedures Act,” while others refer to Utah Code Ann. § 40-6-10(2)
as the basis for the requests. Accordingly, for the limited purpose of timely
responding, the Board considers each of the Emergency Requests to be properly filed. 2
Statutory Basis for Issuance of an Emergency Order
The Utah Administrative Procedures Act (“UAPA”) authorizes the issuance of
an emergency order under the following specified conditions:
An agency may issue an order on an emergency basis without complying
with the requirements of this chapter if:
(a) the facts known by the agency or presented to the agency show that an
immediate and significant danger to the public health, safety, or welfare
exists; and
2

Utah Code Ann. § 40-6-10(2) and Utah Admin. Code R. 641-109-400 do not specify any filing requirements for
requests for issuance of emergency orders. Even if there were specified requirements, the Board can waive strict
compliance with its administrative rules. Utah Admin. Code R. 641-100-400 (deviation from rules).

3

(b) the threat requires immediate action by the agency.
Utah Code Ann. § 63G-4-502(1)
Although UAPA does not contain a definition for “immediate and significant
danger,” the Board has consistently referred to the following definitions within the
Utah Mined Land Reclamation Act as guidance when confronted with situations
requiring the issuance of an emergency order:
“Imminent danger to the health and safety of the public” means the
existence of a condition or practice, or a violation of a permit requirement
or other requirement of this chapter in a mining operation, which
condition, practice, or violation could reasonably be expected to cause
substantial physical harm to persons outside the permit area before the
condition, practice, or violation can be abated. A reasonable expectation of
death or serious injury before abatement exists if a rational person,
subjected to the same conditions or practices giving rise to the peril, would
not expose himself or herself to the danger during the time necessary for
abatement.
Utah Code Ann. § 40-8-4(12)(a)-(b).
Factual and Legal Analysis
Applying these statutes and regulations to the issues at bar, the Board
determines the record does not contain sufficient factual allegations warranting the
issuance of an emergency order. First, although a final order has not been issued, the
Division and Tree Farm’s “Stipulated Motion to Dismiss Request for Agency Action for
Mootness” (“Stipulation”) was granted by the Board at the March 23, 2022 Public
Meeting. The Stipulation provided for the following actions to occur:
(1) Tree Farm will no longer challenge the denial of the NOI-SMO; (2) Tree
Farm will withdraw its previously filed NOI-LMO; (3) Tree Farm will refile
a notice of intention to commence small mining operations to be timely
reviewed by the Division; (4) Tree Farm will not file a notice of intention to
commence large mining operations simultaneously with the filing of the

4

new notice of intention to commence small mining operations; and (5) Tree
Farm reserves the right to file a new notice of intention to commence large
mining operations at a future date, prior to enlarging small mining
operations beyond twenty acres, and with sufficient lead time to allow the
Division to timely review the new notice of intention to commence large
mining operations.
See Stipulation, p. 2.
Since the Emergency Requests are tied exclusively to the Tree Farm’s planned
mining operations, and per the Stipulation, Tree Farm has withdrawn its mining
applications, there are no actual mining operations being conducted by Tree Farm.
Accordingly, there is no conduct to cease or abate through issuance of an emergency
order. 3
Further, related to the ripeness issue, there is not a sufficient showing of
imminence required for issuance of an emergency order. As specified in the
Emergency Requests, the concerns expressed are principally centered on future and,
at present, speculative impacts which would only occur after all applicable State and
local permits are obtained. Accordingly, the record does not support a finding by the
Board of “immediate and significant danger” necessary to justify the issuance of an
emergency order.
Finally, with respect to any request for a moratorium on small and large mine
applications, the Board does not have the statutory authority to issue such broad
ranging relief. Rather, per Board rule, emergency orders are intended to be

3

The Utah Supreme Court has explained the general premise of the ripeness doctrine on multiple occasions: “[t]his
Court will not issue advisory opinions or examine a controversy that has not yet sharpened into an actual or imminent
clash of legal rights and obligations between the parties thereto. Where there exists no more than a difference of
opinion regarding the hypothetical application of a piece of legislation to a situation in which the parties might, at some
future time, find themselves, the question is unripe for adjudication. State v. Ortiz, 1999 UT 84, ¶ 3, 987 P.2d 39, ¶ 3
(citation and internal quotes omitted); See also Bodell Construction Co. v. Robbins, 2009 UT 52, 215 P.3d 933.

5

temporary. See R641-109-400 (“. . . [t]he emergency order will remain in effect no
longer than until the next regular meeting of the Board, or such shorter period of time
as will be prescribed by statute.”) In addition, if an emergency order were to issue, “. . .
the agency shall: limit its order to require only the action necessary to prevent or avoid
the danger to the public health, safety, or welfare.” Utah Code Ann. § 63G-4-502(2)(a).
Based on the applicable statute and rule, as with any form of injunctive relief,
emergency orders issued from the Board are considered extraordinary remedies that
should be sparingly issued and narrowly tailored. Under the current record, there is
not a sufficient factual basis warranting the relief requested. Moreover, the Board
lacks jurisdiction to issue a statewide moratorium on all mining applications. 4
Order
Having reviewed each of the Emergency Requests, the Board finds and
determines that each of the Emergency Requests are hereby DENIED. As was
mentioned during the March 23, 2022 Public Hearing, concerned citizens will have the
opportunity to object and/or comment to Tree Farm’s refiled application(s) once they
are submitted.
Despite denying the Emergency Request, the Board would like to take this
opportunity to specifically address the concerned members of the public. The Board
would like to first thank each of the citizens who provided public comment and who
submitted Emergency Requests pertaining to mining operations being conducted in

4

Not only does the Board lack the authority to issue a moratorium, such a drastic action likely may also create
immediate exposure to the State of Utah based on anticipated regulatory takings claims that would certainly be asserted
by negatively affected third-party operators.

6

Parley’s Canyon. Robust and multi-faceted dialogue translates into well-informed
decision making.
To that end, the Board respectfully reminds the public that the Board intends
on providing additional guidance on these issues in the forthcoming written Order
granting the Stipulation and denying the Division’s Motion for Policy Guidance. To be
clear, the Board can only operate under the powers and duties set forth in statute.
With that in mind, the Board intends on clarifying the public health and safety
protections currently available under existing statute to hopefully address, to the best
of the Board’s ability, the legitimate concerns raised by the public in relation to any
future mining and potential environmental impacts in Parley’s Canyon.
ENTERED this 1st day of April, 2022.
STATE OF UTAH
BOARD OF OIL, GAS AND MINING

Chris D. Hansen, Chairman

7

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
I hereby certify that on this 1st day of April, 2022, I caused a true and correct
copy of the foregoing ORDER DENYING REQUESTS FOR ISSUANCE OF AN
EMERGENCY ORDER for Docket No. 2022-009 Cause No. S9999999 to be mailed
to the following:
Via Email:
Michael E. Begley
Trevor J. Gruwell
Utah Attorney General’s Office
Natural Resources Division
1594 W. North Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
Email: mbegley@agutah.gov
Assistant Attorneys General Representing
the Utah Board of Oil, Gas and Mining

Haley Sousa
Charles A. Lyons
Utah Attorney General’s Office
Natural Resources Division
1594 W. North Temple, Suite 300
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
Email: hsousa@agutah.gov
Assistant Attorney General Representing
the Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining

Hollie Brown
Public Information Officer
Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
Email: holliebrown@utah.gov
Abbey Park
Email: abbey@associatedgroupllc.com

Aimee Newton
Salt Lake County Council
Email: anewton@slco.org

Andrew W. Smith
2385 E. Stringham Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109-1222
Email: awsmith4@comcast.net

Angela McGuire
South Jordan, UT
Email: jarjam2006@gmail.com

Ann Granato
Salt Lake County Council
Email: agranato@slco.org

Ann Achiu
Mount Aire Canyon resident
Email: ann.s.achiu@gmail.com

Annette Dunham
Email: ajdunham301@gmail.com

Arlyn Bradshaw
Salt Lake County Council
Email: abradshaw@slco.org

8

Brandon Williams
Email: bwillinvest@gmail.com

Bruce Sherman
3428 E Regatta Ln
Sandy, UT 84093
Email: bruce.r.sherman@gmail.com

Catherine Raney
Email: catherine.raneynorman@gmail.com

David Alvord
Salt Lake County Council
Email: dalvord@slco.org

Dea Theodore
Salt Lake County Council
Email: dhtheodore@slco.org

Denise Morgan
Email: niseyj@gmail.com

Fran Yates
Email: franyates@aol.com

Jason McGuire
South Jordan, Utah
Email: mcgjason@gmail.com

Jeff Robison, M.D.
Associate Professor of Pediatrics
University of Utah School of Medicine
Robert Bolte Endowed Chair in Pediatric
Emergency Medicine
Director, Global, Rural & Underserved
Child Health Program
Email: jeff.robison@hsc.utah.edu

Jessica Roestenburg
Email: jessmarie1203@gmail.com

Jim Bradley
Salt Lake County Council
Email: jbradley@slco.org

Joel Ban
Email: joel.ban@gmail.com

John Kennington
Cottonwood Heights, UT
Email: jrksolar@gmail.com

Justin Wilde
PO Box 520002
SLC UT, 84152
Email: getwilde@gmail.com

Mayor Jenny Wilson
Salt Lake County Government Center
2001 So. State St., Suite #N-2100
Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
Email: jwilson@slco.org

Katie Petersen
Resident of West Jordan, UT
Email: katielyn7@hotmail.com

9

kimron
Email: kimron@yahoo.com

Laurie Stringham
Salt Lake County Council
Email: llstringham@slco.org

Matt Dee
Email: dee.matthew@gmail.com

Marilyn and Randy Hanks
Email: rmhanks@hotmail.com

Miles Perrett
Pleasant Grove Resident
Email: milesptdo@gmail.com

Morris Dunham
Email: kd7nle@me.com

Redd Smith
Email: reddhsmith@gmail.com

Richard Snelgrove
Salt Lake County Council
Email: rsnelgrove@slco.org

Richard L. Smith
1580 E Millcreek Way
Salt Lake City, UT 84106
Email: rlsmith@smithasoc.com

Ron Faerber, Chairman
League of Unincorporated Community
Councils
PO Box 900904
Sandy, UT 84090-0904
Email: ronfaerber@yahoo.com

Rosie Staes
Email: rosiestaes@gmail.com

Sadie Sarcona
Email: sadie.sarcona@gmail.com

Sally Brown
Email: dtsbslc@gmail.com

Sarah Franco
3433 S. Eastwood Drive
Millcreek, UT 84109
Email: sarahfrancodance@yahoo.com

Stephanie Rees
Email: steph_rees@hotmail.com

Tom Stephens
4408 South Adonis Drive
Millcreek, Utah 84124
Email: tstephen@xmission.com

Via U.S. First Class Mail:

Joseph L. Reimann
2178 E Whitmore Way
Salt Lake City, UT 84121

/s/ Julie Ann Carter
10

