Draft

MINING AND MINERAL RESOURCES
INTRODUCTION
Mineral resources provide the raw materials required to manufacture many of the products that
make modern society possible. Minerals are the source of materials used to construct buildings,
build roads, make cars, generate electricity, develop technology, and provide countless consumer
goods. Mineral resources require varying levels of processing and refining that are often dictated
by end use. As society changes and advances, additional mineral resources will be required to
fuel those changes. For instance, a transition to renewable energy will require substantial
additional production of copper, lithium, cobalt, rare earth elements (REE), critical minerals, and
other resources.
The abundant mineral resources in Utah have proven to be a great benefit to the people here and
to the entire United States for over 170 years. The production of salt from Great Salt Lake and
lime products were some of the first commercial operations begun after Mormon settlers arrived
in the Salt Lake Valley in 1847. Most of the buildings constructed after 1872 at Fort Douglas
were constructed of sandstone from nearby Red Butte Canyon, and many other homes and
buildings throughout the state were constructed of various types of stone from other quarries.1
Commercial-scale production of metals, consisting primarily of gold and silver, began in 1865.
Copper and lead production reached commercial levels in 1870 and together with the precious
metals reached a total value of over a million dollars that year.2 The late 1800s also saw the
development of Utah’s famous Bingham mining district. After the transcontinental railroad was
completed in 1869, a number of branch lines were constructed and each one contributed to an
increase in metal production that pushed total extractive industry values to over $100 million by
1917.3 Simultaneously, a number of large smelters were constructed in the Salt Lake Valley,
mostly just after the turn of the century. These new facilities helped establish Utah as a major
regional mining and smelting center by the early 1900s. Since that time, Utah’s mining industry
has continued to expand and is an important producer of numerous mineral resources.
Currently, mining in Utah occurs on a complex configuration of federal, state, and privately
owned lands. As a result, regulation and development of Utah’s mineral resources are managed
by various state and federal agencies including: the Utah Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
(DOGM), the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Forest Service, the Utah Department
of Environmental Quality, the Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration
(SITLA), and the Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands.
Mining in Utah is primarily regulated by DOGM and their mission is to regulate the exploration
and development of coal and non-coal minerals in a manner which:
1

Powell (1994), Utah History Encyclopedia: Salt Lake City, University of Utah Press, 674 p.
Butler and others (1920) (https://doi.org/10.3133/pp111)
3
Stowe (1975) (https://doi.org/10.34191/b-106)
2

●
●
●
●

encourages responsible reclamation and development;
protects correlative rights;
prevents waste; and
protects human health and safety, the environment, and the interests of the state and its
citizens.4

In 1975, the Utah Legislature assigned DOGM the responsibility for administration of the Mined
Land Reclamation Act. The act’s primary function was to “prevent conditions detrimental to the
general safety and welfare of the citizens of the state of Utah” that could occur from activities of
the mining industry in the state. Permitting and inspection/enforcement procedures, initiated by
the act, ensure proper mine operation and the reclamation of affected lands. The act also made it
illegal for mines to be abandoned without reclamation.
Implementation of the Mined Land Reclamation Act was initially funded totally with state
general funds. A specific law to address the reclamation of coal mines, the Utah Coal Mining and
Reclamation Act, was passed in 1979, and in 1981 Utah received primacy for regulation of coal
mining and reclamation under the federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977
(SMCRA). In March 1987, DOGM assumed sole responsibility under a cooperative agreement
for permitting, inspection, and enforcement on federal lands. Federal money is provided for
regulation of coal mining and reclamation on federal and nonfederal lands. Funds for the
regulation of non-coal minerals exploration and development continue to come primarily from
Utah’s general fund but are supplemented by a modest permit fee program implemented in 1998.
DOGM’s Abandoned Mine Reclamation Program (AMRP) conducts reclamation of abandoned
mine sites under Title IV of SMCRA. Funds for this program come from appropriations of
federal fees paid by the coal industry, based on a per-ton produced rate. Modest funding
agreements with private and federal partners also supplement some of the work in the
Abandoned Mine Reclamation Program. The AMRP works to protect the public from dangers of
old mines by sealing off access to openings and cleaning up waste. Old mining sites can be
intriguing to the public but can be unstable, contain dangerous gases, and present other hazards.
Today there are an estimated 17,000 mine openings scattered across Utah.5
The Minerals Program within DOGM regulates all non-coal mining operations in the state with a
few exceptions. The mission of the Minerals Regulatory Program is to regulate exploration for,
and development and reclamation of, non-coal mineral resources of the state in conformance
with the Utah Mined Land Reclamation Act, UCA 40-8 in a manner which:
● supports the existence of a viable minerals mining industry to preserve the economic and
physical well-being of the state and the nation
● safeguards the environment while protecting public health and safety, and
● achieves the successful reclamation of lands affected by mineral mining activities.6

4

https://www.ogm.utah.gov/about.php#mission

5

https://www.ogm.utah.gov/amr/index.php
https://minerals.ogm.utah.gov/about.php#mission

6

From Rio Tinto’s Bingham Canyon mine, the largest open-pit mine in the state, to small
operations mining for trilobite fossils, the Minerals Program staff works to ensure mining
operation procedures are followed. This includes verifying operators work within their permit
boundaries, ensuring that mining operations pose no threat to public safety or the environment,
and holding appropriate reclamation fees or bonds in the event that they are needed.
The Utah Geological Survey’s (UGS) mission is to provide “timely scientific information about
Utah’s geologic environment, resources, and hazards” and it acts as the primary repository for
mineral resource information across the state. The UGS generates, collects, compiles, and
distributes mineral resource data and information to public, private, and government users. In
those roles, the UGS conducts original research on Utah’s mineral resources but also preserves
existing data made available from other sources, such as industry. In 2020, the UGS produced
Circular 129, “Critical Minerals of Utah.” Much of the data in this section is derived from this
report (include reference in footnote).
FINDINGS7
Utah hosts a variety of mineral resources and produces significant quantities of base metals,
precious metals, and industrial minerals. The U.S. Geological Survey ranked Utah 8th in the
nation for nonfuel (metals and industrial minerals) mineral production value in 2020, accounting
for nearly 4% of the U.S. total.8 Utah consistently ranks in the top 10 states for production value
of nonfuel minerals.
The Utah Geological Survey estimates that the production value of Utah’s mines, excluding coal,
in 2020 was $3.2 billion. Base metal production contributed $1.5 billion to that total and includes
copper, magnesium, beryllium, and molybdenum. Notably, copper accounted for 57% of Utah’s
base metal production value in 2020. Precious metals produced in Utah include gold and silver,
and 2020 production was valued at $350 million. Utah also produced several industrial mineral
commodities including sand and gravel, crushed stone, salt, potash, cement, lime, phosphate,
lithium, gilsonite, clay, gypsum, and others. The estimated value of industrial mineral production
in 2020 was $1.4 billion.
Notably, Utah is home to the Bingham Canyon mine, which is a world-class
copper-molybdenum-gold porphyry deposit. The great majority of Utah’s copper, gold, and silver
production and all molybdenum production comes from the Bingham Canyon mine. The mine
and associated refineries and facilities are located on the west bench of the Salt Lake Valley in
the Oquirrh Mountains. Utah also remains the only state to produce magnesium metal, beryllium
concentrate, potassium sulfate, and gilsonite; of these mineral commodities, magnesium,
beryllium, and potash (includes potassium sulfate) are included in the U.S. Department of the
Interior’s 2018 list of critical minerals.9 Lithium, also deemed a critical mineral, was produced in
Utah for the first time in 2020, making Utah one of only two lithium-producing states.
7

This section was contributed by the Utah Geological Survey Energy and Minerals Program. Information and data from this section are primarily
derived from the Utah Geological Survey’s annual mining reports. A representative example can be found at the following link
(https://doi.org/10.34191/c-130).
8
U.S. Geological Survey, mineral commodity summaries (https://doi.org/10.3133/mcs2021).
9
Fortier and others (2018) (https://doi.org/10.3133/ofr20181021).

Currently there are more than 400 non-coal mines with active permits from DOGM statewide.10
The metals and industrial minerals sections below detail the most significant mineral resources
mined in Utah.
Metals
Copper. Copper is the largest single commodity contributor to Utah’s nonfuel mineral portfolio.
The Bingham Canyon mine is, by far, the primary producer of copper in Utah, and produced 309
million lbs (154,000 short tons) in 2020 valued at $864 million. Smaller producers have
intermittently operated in San Juan and Beaver Counties in recent years. Utah copper is used to
create various alloys for numerous products including electrical wiring, electronic components,
and pipe for plumbing, refrigeration, and heating systems.
Magnesium. Utah is home to the U.S. Magnesium plant in Tooele County, which is the only
facility producing magnesium metal from a primary source within the United States. Magnesium
chloride-rich brine is derived from the Great Salt Lake and through evaporation is converted to
magnesium metal by an electrolytic process. The plant has a production capacity of
approximately 70,000 tons of magnesium metal per year. This metal is used as a constituent of
aluminum-based alloys for aerospace and defense applications, to add strength, decrease weight
and increase corrosion resistance of alloys for desulfurization of iron and steel, and for other
practical industrial applications. Other potential magnesium resources are located in the Great
Salt Lake Desert/Bonneville Salt Flats, Sevier Lake, and the Paradox Basin.
Beryllium. Utah currently remains the sole producer of beryllium ore in the United States.
Materion Natural Resources, Inc., extracts bertrandite, a beryllium mineral, from the Spor
Mountain area in Juab County, and then produces bertrandite concentrate at their mill in Millard
County. The beryllium mill processes the bertrandite ore into beryllium hydroxide, which is then
shipped out of state for further refining. In 2020, beryllium production from Utah totaled
333,840 lbs (167 tons), having a value of $94 million. The Spor Mountain mine is the largest
producer of beryllium in the world, accounting for approximately 63% of the world’s production
in 2020. The proven and probable reserves at Spor Mountain are estimated to be enough to
maintain mining at current production levels for another 75 years. Beryllium is an essential
component in aerospace and defense applications due to being lightweight but able to withstand
significant temperature variations and mechanical distortion. It is also an important component
for automotive and consumer electronics, telecommunications infrastructure and energy
applications.
Gold and Silver. Most of Utah’s gold and silver are produced from the Bingham Canyon mine.
However, lesser amounts of both metals are currently also produced at the Kiewit (Tooele
County) and Trixie (Juab County) mines. Utah produced 175,043 troy ounces of gold in 2020
valued at $310 million. Utah produced 2.2 million troy ounces of silver in 2020 valued at $44
million.

10

OGM records as of 8/19/2021.

Molybdenum. Molybdenum is produced in Utah exclusively from the Bingham Canyon mine.
Bingham produced 45,000,000 lbs (22,490 tons) of molybdenum in 2020 valued at $408 million.
Molybdenite, the ore mineral of molybdenum, is not refined at Bingham Canyon. The
molybdenite is concentrated, dried, and shipped to other refineries in Arizona and Mexico.
Molybdenum is primarily used in alloys, particularly stainless steel alloys widely used in the
petroleum industry.
Iron. Utah intermittently produces iron from the Iron Springs district in Iron County and recently
resumed production following a shutdown in 2014. The Iron Springs district has historically been
the largest iron producer in the western U.S. Iron mineralization at the Black Iron open-pit mine,
which restarted operations in 2020, occurs as massive magnetite skarn/replacement deposits
adjacent to Miocene monzonite laccoliths.
Industrial Minerals
Potash. Utah is one of only two potash-producing states in the country, and three locations in
Utah produce potash. Compass Minerals in Ogden produces potassium sulfate from Great Salt
Lake brine, Intrepid Potash-Wendover produces potassium chloride from shallow subsurface
brines in the Great Salt Lake Desert, and Intrepid Potash-Moab produces potassium chloride
from a solution mine targeting deep, subsurface evaporites of the Pennsylvanian-age Paradox
Formation. Potash production in Utah totaled 461,000 short tons in 2020 having a value of $227
million. Uniquely, Utah produces two types of potash: potassium sulfate and potassium chloride.
Potassium sulfate has a significantly higher (+$376 per ton in 2020) market value than potassium
chloride. As previously noted, Utah is the sole domestic producer of potassium sulfate. The
primary use of both types of potash is fertilizer; however, potash is also used in the production of
soap, glass, ceramics and batteries and is a component in drilling mud used in the oil and gas
industry.
Sand and Gravel, Crushed Stone, and Dimension Stone. Sand and gravel, crushed stone, and
dimension stone are produced by many private, county, state, and federal entities across the state.
These commodities are produced from several types of unconsolidated deposits. Sand and gravel
and crushed stone, known generically as construction aggregate, are widely used for concrete
aggregate, road construction, asphalt aggregate, fill, and for other construction uses. During
2020, approximately 40 million short tons of sand and gravel was produced in Utah, worth an
estimated $309 million, and about 14 million short tons of crushed stone was produced, worth
$105 million.11 Several thousand tons of dimension stone were also produced. A strong
construction market in Utah, particularly in the residential sector, has kept construction aggregate
demand relatively high for the past several years.
Salt. Utah has extensive salt resources in a variety of areas. Salt produced in Utah is used for a
variety of purposes including road deicing, water treatment, and agricultural and industrial
applications. One operation in central Utah, Redmond Minerals, also produces food-grade salt
from their underground operation. Utah salt production in 2020 amounted to approximately 3.3
million short tons and had a production value estimated at $207 million. About 76% of the salt
11

U.S. Geological Survey (2021)
(https://prd-wret.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/assets/palladium/production/atoms/files/mis-2020q4-conagg.pdf).

was produced from Great Salt Lake brine by three operators that use evaporation ponds for
production: Compass Minerals Ogden, Cargill Salt, and Morton International. The remaining
24% came from Redmond Minerals, Intrepid Potash-Moab, Intrepid Potash-Wendover, and
Willow Creek Salt. Redmond Minerals and Willow Creek Salt use conventional methods to mine
rock salt and Intrepid uses evaporation ponds to produce salt. Intrepid Potash-Wendover
primarily extracts salt from shallow subsurface brines and Intrepid Potash-Moab solution mines
salt from deep subsurface salt beds.
Portland Cement, Lime, and Limestone. Multiple mining operations in Utah mine limestone
for purposes beyond construction aggregate to create value-added products such as Portland
cement and lime. Ash Grove Cement and LafargeHolcim produced about 1.8 million short tons
of Portland cement in Utah during 2020, having an estimated value of $207 million. Ash Grove
Cement operates the Leamington quarry and plant east of Leamington in Juab County, whereas
LafargeHolcim operates the Devils Slide quarry and plant east of Morgan in Morgan County.
Besides mining limestone for Portland cement, Ash Grove and Holcim also produce small
amounts of sandstone, clay, and shale, which are lesser feedstock for their cement plants. During
2020, Graymont Western U.S. was the sole producer of lime in Utah, and they produced
high-calcium quicklime and dolomitic quicklime from their quarry and plant in the Cricket
Mountains in Millard County. Lime is used for flue gas desulfurization, steel production, and a
variety of other construction, chemical, and industrial applications. Limestone is also mined for
flue-gas desulfurization at coal-fired power plants and “rock dust,” used to coat the walls of coal
mines to keep coal dust from accumulating.
Phosphate. Utah is one of four states in the country that produces phosphate rock. Most of the
phosphate rock mined domestically is used to manufacture phosphoric acids to make ammonium
phosphate fertilizers and animal feed supplements. Simplot Phosphates is the major phosphate
producer in Utah, mining the Meade Peak Member of the Permian Phosphoria Formation. Their
phosphate operation is 12 miles north of Vernal in Uintah County. In 2020, the mine produced
nearly 3.2 million short tons of ore, yielding about 1.2 million short tons of phosphate
concentrate after processing. The concentrate is transported in slurry through a 96-mile
underground pipeline to the Simplot fertilizer plant near Rock Springs, Wyoming. A few
thousand tons of organically certified phosphate is produced from another mine in Utah County.
Gilsonite. Gilsonite is a shiny, black, solid hydrocarbon that occurs in a swarm of narrow, but
laterally and vertically extensive veins in the Uinta Basin. It has been mined since the late 1880s,
mostly in Utah with some minor production in the Colorado part of the basin. In 2020, American
Gilsonite Company and Table Rock Minerals, LLC were the only producers of Gilsonite, both
located in Uintah County. Over the past decade, gilsonite production from the Uinta Basin has
ranged up to about 85,000 short tons per year, depending on market conditions. Utah is the only
place in the world that contains large deposits of gilsonite, which has been shipped worldwide
for use in numerous and diverse products including asphalt paving mixes, coatings, inks, and
paints.12 The oil and gas industry has also used gilsonite as an additive in drilling fluids.
Gilsonite helps control fluid loss and seepage, increases wellbore stability, prevents loss of
circulation, and stabilizes shale.
12

Boden and Tripp (2012) (https://doi.org/10.34191/ss-141).

Clay and Shale. Clay and shale production (including bentonite, common clay, high-alumina
clay, and expanded shale) in Utah totaled at least 341,000 short tons in 2020. Clay and shale are
produced at various small and large mines, commonly on an intermittent basis. Bentonite was
produced by Western Clay and Redmond Minerals. Uses for bentonite include well drilling and
foundry operations, various civil engineering applications, and litter-box filler. Some of the
largest producers of clay and shale products are Utelite (expanded shale), Interstate Brick
(common clay), Ash Grove Cement (high-alumina clay), and LafargeHolcim (high-alumina
clay). Common clay is largely used to make bricks, whereas high-alumina clay is most
commonly used to make Portland cement in Utah. Applied Minerals Inc. intermittently produces
a small amount of specialty clay (halloysite) and iron oxide from the Dragon mine in the Tintic
Mountains. Expanded shale in Utah is produced by Utelite at their quarry and plant near Wanship
in Summit County. Expanded shale is a lightweight aggregate mainly used by the construction
industry. The material is used in roof tile, concrete block, structural concrete, and horticulture
additives, as well as for highway construction and geotechnical fill.
Silica and industrial sand. Silica and industrial sand produced in Utah are used for flux and frac
sand. Production in Utah during 2020 had an estimated value of about $19 million. On Stansbury
Island, Bolinder Resources mines quartzite from the Devonian-Mississippian Stansbury
Formation as a source of industrial silica that is being used as a flux at the Kennecott smelter.
North of Vernal, Ramsey Hill Exploration produces frac sand from Quaternary unconsolidated
mixed alluvial and eolian deposits. Frac sand is relatively pure silica sand that is used for
hydraulic fracturing stimulations in oil and gas wells and Ramsey Hill is supplying this sand for
local use in the Uinta Basin.
Gypsum. Utah has significant gypsum resources and gypsum produced in Utah is primarily used
in raw or crude form by regional cement companies as an additive to retard the setting time of
cement and by the agriculture industry as a soil conditioner. Lesser amounts of the higher value
calcined gypsum are used to make wallboards. Four operators reported combined gypsum
production in Utah of about 553,000 short tons in 2020. The estimated value of 2020 gypsum
production is $6.6 million. The four Utah gypsum producers were Progressive Contracting, Inc.,
United States Gypsum Co., Sunroc Corp., and Diamond K Gypsum. Two gypsum wallboard
plants are located near Sigurd in Sevier County, but only one is currently active.
Lithium. For the first time in 2020, lithium was produced in Utah by U.S. Magnesium as a
byproduct. Lithium is concentrated along with magnesium in U.S. Magnesium’s solar
evaporation ponds and as part of the magnesium refining process, lithium is separated from
magnesium. U.S. Magnesium has been stockpiling lithium ore from this process for many years.
Their estimated capacity for lithium production is about 10,000 tons of lithium carbonate per
year. Lithium is primarily used in batteries, but is also used in ceramics, glass, lubricating grease,
pharmaceuticals, and other applications. Other potential lithium producing areas in Utah include
the Paradox Basin, Sevier Lake, and the Great Salt Lake Desert.
Coal
(See Energy Resources Section)

Exploration and Development
Exploration and development activity for mineral resources in Utah remains a steady presence.
Exploration and development involves locating a potential mineral deposit, acquiring a land
position, defining the potential mineral resources (which includes mapping, sampling, drilling,
etc.), economic evaluation, permitting, and other activities. Utah has a long history of exploration
for metallic resources and exploration is currently taking place in many of Utah’s mining
districts13 for copper, gold, silver, lead, and zinc. Recent exploration for industrial mineral
commodities includes fluorspar, lithium, frac sand, potash, pozzolan, phosphate, and others.
Critical Minerals and Rare Earth Elements
Critical Minerals. In 2018, the U.S. Geological Survey designated 35 non-fuel minerals or mineral
groups as critical minerals.14 Critical minerals are defined as those necessary for economic or national
security and have a supply chain vulnerable to disruption. In 2020, Utah produced eight critical minerals
(helium, lithium, beryllium, magnesium metal, potash, rhenium, platinum, and palladium).15 Rhenium,
platinum, and palladium are all produced as byproducts from the Bingham Canyon mine. Helium is
produced at a gas plant in Lisbon Valley that purifies helium from natural gas streams, some of which are
from Utah, starting in 2019. The production of lithium, beryllium, magnesium metal, and potash is
discussed above.
In addition to the eight produced critical minerals, Utah hosts established resources of six more (fluorspar,
vanadium, uranium, aluminum, and indium). Ares Strategic Mining is currently developing the Lost
Sheep fluorspar mine in Juab County, with plans to begin production in 2021. In May 2021, Rio Tinto
also announced it would build a tellurium recovery plant expected to come online in late 2021 at Bingham
Canyon. The addition of Lost Sheep fluorspar and Bingham Canyon tellurium brings Utah’s anticipated
2021 critical mineral production to ten commodities. If the Lost Sheep comes online it will be the major
fluorspar producer in the United States. Other recent activities in Utah related to critical minerals have
included exploration for vanadium, indium, helium, lithium, and potash. However, the U.S. Geological
Survey recently announced that uranium was not evaluated for inclusion on a proposed update to the
critical minerals list. The U.S. Geological Survey report also indicated that the future status of helium,
potash, and rhenium as critical minerals is uncertain. Zinc has been recommended as an addition to the
critical mineral list16 and Utah has historically been the ninth largest zinc producer domestically.
Rare Earth Elements (REE). Utah’s geology is not conducive to the formation of significant REE
deposits, as confirmed by historical exploration. Minor modern exploration has re-evaluated previously
deprioritized targets (e.g., Lake Bonneville beach gravels in Juab County); however, it is unlikely that
Utah has the potential to become a primary REE producer. Byproduct REE production from existing mine
tailings, such as the beryllium tailings at Spor Mountain or coal ash stockpiled at coal-fired power plants,
may be possible and is the subject of current research.
Products from the mining industry are integral to every Utahns’ lifestyle and standard of living and
mining supports the foundation of the nation’s economy. From the sand and gravel used to build roads and
lay foundations for homes and buildings, to coal and uranium (fuel minerals addressed in the Energy
13

Krahulec (2018) (https://doi.org/10.34191/ofr-695).
Fortier and others (2018) (https://doi.org/10.3133/ofr20181021).
15
Mills and Rupke (2020) provide a detailed summary of critical minerals in Utah (https://doi.org/10.34191/c-129).
16
Nassar and Fortier (2021) (https://doi.org/10.3133/ofr20211045).
14

section) used to generate more than half of the nation’s electricity, to the copper wire that connects
billions of computers to a global social and commercial network, this country’s economy and way of life
depend on the vital resources provided by mining. Because of its importance to society, mineral resource
development in Utah is supported by state policy.

ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS17
The mining industry is an important contributor to Utah’s economy. As previously noted, Utah
ranked 8th in the U.S. for value of nonfuel (metals and industrial minerals) mineral production in
2020, and the total value of those commodities produced in 2020 was approximately $3.2 billion.
The metal and industrial mineral industries paid nearly $66 million in property taxes during 2020
and over $13 million (in fiscal year 2020) in mining-related severance taxes. All extractive
industries, including oil and gas, paid nearly $45 million in federal Mineral Lease disbursements
in FY2020. About 1% of Utah’s gross domestic product came from the mining industry in 2019,
1.4% if oil and gas are included.18 According to the Utah Department of Workforce Services,
about $390 million in wages were earned in 2020 by mining employees in Utah.

Goals, Objectives and Policies
Utah will continue to regulate the exploration and development of minerals in a manner that
encourages responsible reclamation and development; prevents waste; and protects human health
and safety, the environment, and the interests of the state and its citizens. The State will advance
Utah’s mineral development sectors through planning, policy, and engagement with the mining
industries, the public, and interest stakeholders.
Products from the mining industry are integral to every Utahns’ lifestyle and standard of living
and support the foundation of the nation’s economy. From the sand and gravel used to build
roads and lay foundations for homes and buildings, to coal and uranium used to generate more
than half of the nation’s electricity, to the copper wire that connects billions of computers to a
global social and commercial network, this country’s economy and way of life depend on the
vital resources provided by mining. Because of its importance to society, mineral resource
development in Utah is supported by state policy. The following statements describe the state’s
positions on mineral resources and mineral development on state and federal lands within the
State of Utah.
Goal
Promote responsible and sustainable stewardship and development of Utah’s mineral resources.
Objectives
● Protect and expand access to significant mineral resources, including critical minerals and
rare earth elements, for current and future generations of Americans.
17
18

This section was contributed by the Utah Geological Survey Energy and Minerals Program.
Mills and others (2020) (https://doi.org/10.34191/c-130).

● Encourage the mining, transportation, and processing of mineral resources in Utah,
including critical minerals and rare earth elements.
● Support the investigating and processing of mine tailings and new mineral resources to
extract critical minerals and rare earth elements provided that excessive environmental
damage does not occur.
● Help ensure that the Utah Geological Survey has adequate funding to investigate and
make needed data publicly available. This process may include the need to hire additional
employees to do research, synthesize data, and generate reports.
Policies
● The State will oppose land use plans or designations that impede access to mine, produce,
process, or transport mineral resources.
● The State will oppose any land use restrictions or designations that could impede access
to mine, produce, process and transport mineral resources prior to the federal government
funding and completion of a comprehensive mineral resource assessment for the area
subject to such restriction or designation.
● The State supports federal initiatives to reduce the nation’s reliance on imported mineral
resources.
● The State supports streamlining and expediting the NEPA compliance, policies, and
permitting processes so that mineral resources can be accessed, produced, processed, and
transported in a timely manner..
● The State supports legislation and policies that facilitate exploration and development of
the mineral resources in Utah.
The following are not specific to just critical minerals and rare earth elements, but rather, they
apply to all mineral resources and mining operations.
● The State supports responsible mining for mineral resources on lands managed by the
State, U.S. Bureau of Land Management and the U.S. Forest Service.
● The State does not support the withdrawal of lands managed by the U.S. Bureau of Land
Management or the U.S. Forest Service from available mineral extraction unless the
proposed mineral withdrawal is agreed upon through coordination with the state and
counties within which the proposed mineral withdrawal is located.
● The State will engage with federal land management agencies on all mining-related
projects to promote the responsible mining of mineral resources.
● The State supports a positive working relationship between the federal land management
agencies and the Utah Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining to promote responsible mining of
the mineral resources that support Utah’s economy and quality of life while safeguarding
Utah’s environment.
● State agency personnel shall be included as members of interdisciplinary teams
preparing NEPA documents affecting mineral resources in Utah.

