November 27, 2021

Utah Department of Natural Recourses
Division of Oil, Gas and Mining
Attn: Leslie Heppler
1594 West North Temple, Suite 1210
Salt Lake City, UT 84116
801-538-5257, Ihepler@utah.gov
Re: Tree Farm, LLC Notice of Intention to Commence Mining Operations
Dear Ms. Heppler,
I am writing to you in concern of Form MR-LMO which was submitted by Tree Farm, LLC on November
12, 2021 to the Utah Department of Natural Resources. According to I. Rule R647-4-104, 10., it stated
of
that property owners with mineral rights and adjacent property owners had been notified in writing
did
I
,
Partnership
intent to commerce mining operations. As managing partner of the Richards Family
not receive any notification. I find it disturbing, reckless and maybe illegal not to notify property owners
of a project that directly has such a detrimental impact on them. The Richards Family Partnership owns
664 acres of property directly adjacent east to the proposed open-pit limestone quarry. I also own a
cabin in Mount Aire Canyon and have served as an officer and Board of Director on the Mountair Private
Road Company for over 20 years. My Great Grandfather, along with my grandfather homesteaded
Mount Aire. I am very much emotionally invested as I am financially invested in the Mount Aire
Community. I am asking the Utah Department of Natural Resources to carefully research how devasting
it would be for property owners, of all the environmental hazards that our directly impacted by open-pit
limestone mines, the Mount Aire community, the Salt Lake County community and not allow Tree Farm,
LLC to mine in the proposed location.
In the short notice I have had to research open-pit mining, I have learned how devastating it is to the
environment because it exposes dangerous chemicals buried in the earths crust. Limestone cannot be
mined without impacting the environment. An open-pit mine will cause vibrations and explosions, land
degradation, subsidence and landslides, water pollution (toxic water), occupational noise pollution and
harmful air pollution which can lead to health-related problems and loss of biodiversity. The dust, noise
and shaking alone, will have a tremendous negative impact on the Mount Aire community and other
surrounding communities, then add all the chemical pollutants on top. There are too many unknown
factors of all the harmful effects allowing a large limestone quarry will cause on the environment. By
allowing this project, the beauty of Parleys Canyon and the wild life will be greatly disturbed.
Besides all the damaging environmental impacts the proposed mine will have, is the devaluation of
property. The Richards Family Partnerships property will be worthless. My family has persevered and
paid property taxes on their 664 acres for over 100 years. We will never be able to enjoy it, hike, sleigh
ride or sell it. Large trucks and equipment will be literally traveling inches away from the front of our
property and will be sharing the same and only access road. I can not even imagine the negative
changes this will have on the soil erosion, vegetation and groundwater level and flow paths this will
cause to our property. The proposed quarry will also devalue my cabin as well as all property in Mount
Aire Canyon. Most property owners in the Canyon pay high recreational property taxes which have

made it hard to continue paying year after year, but the private historic Mount Aire community has
warranted the desire to be a part of. All of this will change if Tree Farm, LLC is allowed to have an openpit quarry and no one will be wanting to purchase property in our community.
the
My hope is that the Utah Department of Natural Resources will consider my concerns on behalf or
negative
what
investigate
and
Richards Family Partnership and a member of the Mount Aire community
harmful effects the mine will have. I also want to express the importance of notifying and
communication with property owners of something that could drastically change their lives, finances
and safety. It is hard for me to comprehend, that property owners along with State and County officials
were not notified about this until read in a newspaper article. I am encouraging you and your
department to not allow Tree Farm, LLC to mine in this location which will cause risk and damages to so
many.
Sincerely,

Susan Trapp
Richards Family Partnership, Managing Partner
2313 Creek Road
Cottonwood Heights, UT 84093
801-599-5720
CC: Spencer J. Cox (Governor), MS. Jani Iwamoto (State Senator District 4), Mr. Doug Owens (State
Representative District 36), Ms. Jenny Wilson (Mayor-Salt Lake County), Brian King (State Representative
District 28), Derek Kitchen (Senator District 2), Jeff Silvestrini (Mayor-Millcreek City), Ms. Ann Granato
(Salt Lake County Council District 4), Ms. Laurie Stringham (Salt Lake County Council At Large), Mr.
Richard Snelgrove (Salt Lake County Council At Large), Mr. Jim Bradley (Salt Lake County Council At
Large).

