Brent N. Bateman
Attorney at Law
brent.bateman@dentons.com
D 1+ (801) 375-6600

Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar P.C.
3301 N. Thanksgiving Way, Suite 400
Lehi, Utah 84043
United States
dentons.com

February 11, 2022
Via – zshaw@slco.org
Zachary D. Shaw
Salt Lake County Deputy District Attorney
35 East 500 South
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Dear Mr. Shaw:
Be advised that this law firm represents Tree Farm, LLC. It has come to my attention that Salt
Lake County is currently preparing ordinances to restrict the mining and extraction of critical
infrastructure materials from various properties my client owns in Parleys Canyon. The purpose
of my letter is to make you aware that any attempts to do so will be a violation of state law. In
addition, be aware that my client currently has a vested critical infrastructure materials operation
on the property.
Utah Code 17-41-402(6) reads:
(6)
(a)

(b)

A county, city, or town may not:
adopt, enact, or amend an existing land use regulation, ordinance, or
regulation that would prohibit, restrict, regulate, or otherwise limit critical
infrastructure materials operations, including vested critical infrastructure
materials operations as defined in Section 10-9a-901 or 17-27a-001; or
initiate proceedings to amend the county's, city's, or town's land use
ordinances as described in Subsection 10-9a-509(1)(a)(ii) or 17-27a508(1)(a)(ii).

Accordingly, under this section of the Utah State Code, Salt Lake County cannot enact or even
initiate proceedings to enact ordinances that restrict or prohibit critical infrastructure materials
operations. There are no qualifiers to this plain language. Thus, Salt Lake County cannot legally
adopt new ordinances that will restrict extraction of critical infrastructure materials on my client’s
property.
Moreover, the definition of vested critical infrastructure materials operation in Utah Code 10-9a901(4) reads thus:
(4)

"Vested critical infrastructure materials operations" means critical
infrastructure materials operations operating in accordance with a legal
nonconforming use or a permit issued by the municipality that existed or

Durham Jones & Pinegar ► LEAD Advogados ► Rattagan Macchiavello Arocena ► Jiménez de Aréchaga Viana & Brause ► Lee International ►
Kensington Swan ► Bingham Greenebaum ► Cohen & Grigsby ► Sayarh & Menjra ► Larraín Rencoret ► For more information on the firms that
have come together to form Dentons, go to dentons.com/legacyfirms
Dentons is an international legal practice providing client services worldwide through its member firms and affiliates. Please see dentons.com for Legal Notices.

SLC_5775204.1

Zachary D. Shaw
Salt Lake County Deputy District
Attorney
February 11, 2022
Page 2

(a)
(b)

dentons.com

was conducted or otherwise engaged in before:
a political subdivision prohibits, restricts, or otherwise limits the critical
infrastructure materials operations; and
January 1, 2019.

Further, Utah Code 17-27a-1002(1)(a) states that:
(1)

(a)
Critical infrastructure materials operations operating in accordance
with a legal nonconforming use or a permit issued by the county are
conclusively presumed to be vested critical infrastructure materials
operations if the critical infrastructure materials operations permitted by
the county, existed or was conducted or otherwise engaged in before
January 1, 2019 and before when a political subdivision prohibits,
restricts, or otherwise limits the critical infrastructure materials operations.

Ample direct evidence exists, including historic and visual evidence, that sand and gravel
extraction has occurred on my client’s property for many years, including prior to 1972, when
Salt Lake County first adopted zoning ordinances covering Parleys Canyon. Accordingly, my
client has rights to a vested critical infrastructure materials operation under the Utah State
Code. If necessary, my client will defend those rights.
If you dispute these conclusions, we invite you to join with us in a request to the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman. We feel that the Ombudsman may be very helpful in resolving
any difficulties and disagreements between our clients, and would be happy to work
cooperatively with the County in presenting the matter to that office. Thank you for your
attention to this matter. Please let me know if you would like to discuss this further.
Very truly yours,
DENTONS DURHAM JONES PINEGAR P.C.

Brent N. Bateman
cc:

Client
Salt Lake County Mayor’s Office
Salt Lake County Planning Commission

