January 30, 2022
To:
Governor Spence Cox
Lt. Governor Deidre M. Hulse Henderson
Senator Jani Iwamoto
Representative Brian S. King
Mayor Erin Mendenhall
Salt Lake City Council Members (7)
Salt Lake City Public Utilities, Laura Briefer
Mayor Jenny Wilson
Salt Lake County Council Members (9)

RE:

Comment Letter regarding Parleys Canyon Proposed Quarry Mine
(Aka: Tree Farm Quarry Mine, Parleys Canyon Mine, I-80 Quarry South)

Dear Utah, Salt Lake City and Salt Lake County Officers,
We are writing to let you know our concerns and issues regarding the proposed quarry mine in Parleys
Canyon.
Our Wasatch Front Mountains are one of the primary attractions to our great Salt Lake Valley. The I-80
corridor through Parleys Canyon is a major artery for millions of travelers each year and a beautiful
entrance to our Valley and our communities.
A quarry mine in Parleys Canyon will permanently scar and harm our beautiful entrance to our Valley.
This will leave our communities, recreationists, visitors and wildlife to live with a degraded
mountainside, air quality, watershed and wildlife habitat for generations.
The proposed quarry mine is located about three miles from the mouth of Parleys Canyon and within
eight to ten minutes from the Salt Lake Valley. The magnitude of this proposed mining operation, and in
such close proximity to our Valley, is gravely concerning. We pose the following concerns and issues
about the adverse impacts a quarry mine brings.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Air quality issues and additional dust pollution in our communities
Watershed and aquifer pollution and damage; and, the water usage requirements of a mining
operations
Noise pollution from mining – blasting, excavation, crushing, vibrations and hauling
Heightened risk of wildfires from mining and trucking operations
Increased avalanche and rock slides from blasting and crushing operations
Increased semi-truck traffic on I-80 with an estimated additional 140 trucks per day at peak
operations
Potential large public investments into I-80 road, exit and overpass bridge additions, expansions
and updates; and, new access roads to the mining site
Loss of wildlife habitat and forestry destruction
Damage to the wilderness and recreational experiences many enjoy in this area
Negative impact on the real estate property values, especially those close to the proposed area

•

This area of Parleys Canyon is in the Forestry and Recreation Zone (FRZ) which is supposed to only
allow development most compatible with the protection of the natural and scenic resources of
these areas for the continued benefit of future generations

We were very encouraged to learn on December 10, 2021 the Salt Lake County Council opposes mineral
extraction and processing in our Forestry and Recreation zones. We now ask that the Utah, Salt Lake
County and Salt Lake City elected and appointed officials all take this same action and support the Salt
Lake County Council in amending the County’s zoning ordinances and regulations, and prohibit mining
operations of any kind in Parleys Canyon and the Wasatch Front.
The Salt Lake Valley already struggles with poor air quality and restricted water resources. To this end,
we support the leadership of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and the Salt Lake County
Planning Commission to recommend amending the Forestry and Recreation Zones uses, ordinances and
regulations.
We support the following revisions of Salt Lake County Ordinances:
✓ Prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers
or concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of
sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons
Overlay Zone."
✓ Establish a process for the County planning director to decide whether or not a use not listed is
prohibited or related to a conditional or permitted use in the relevant ordinances.
We endorse these proposed revisions of the ordinances that will speak loudly on behalf of all that
depend upon and value the Wasatch Front mountains.
Thank you for your time and attention.
Best regards,
Andrew and Marilyn Smith
2385 E Stringham Avenue
Salt Lake City, UT 84109
1-801-718-1509

