Planning Commission Chairman - Opening Statement
Updated January 22, 2013
To be read at the opening of the public hearing item portion of the agenda.
A copy of today's agenda and a sign-in sheet are located on a stand at the back of the room.
Please note your participation in today's meeting by signing in.
The Planning Commission is a voluntary citizen board. The Commission's function is to hear
and decide applications for conditional uses and preliminary subdivision plats; and to make
recommendations to the County Council for zoning changes or changes to ordinances or general
plans.
The agenda is divided into two main categories: Public Hearing Items and Business Items.
At this time we will begin the Public Hearing portion of the agenda. These items are ones for
which public comment is taken so that the Planning Commission can be made aware of all of the
issues of concern with regards to a request. Decisions may be made on any item listed on the
agenda. A decision, or recommendation, will be rendered by the Planning Commission for these
items which may include Approval, Approval with Conditions, Denial, or, Continuation of the
item to a future meeting.
The Commissions decisions are based on: information from field observations;
recommendations from Planning Staff and other agencies, regarding compliance with the general
plan and relevant ordinances; the Community Council recommendation as a representation of
community concerns; and information presented at the public meeting, including a presentation
by the applicant and testimony from the public.
Today's meeting is recorded, so please speak directly into the microphone, and state your
name and address prior to making your comments. Please note that comments from the
audience are only appropriate when presented at the podium.
The meeting will proceed as outlined in the Rules of Conduct printed on the back of the agenda.
To be read at the opening of the business item portion of the agenda.
At this time will proceed with the Business portion of the Commission's Agenda.
As stated earlier today, The Planning Commission is a voluntary citizen board. The
Commission's function is to hear and decide applications for conditional uses and preliminary
subdivision plats; and to make recommendations to the County Council for zoning changes or
changes to ordinances or general plans.
This portion of today's meeting is dedicated to Business Items. Members of the public may
attend, but will not participate unless invited to do so by the Chair or supporting staff.
During this time the Commission may discuss and render decisions on policy issues and
administrative matters that do not require public input. Special presentations, reports, and
updates from the supporting staff that do not require a decision at a Public Hearing may also be
made. There will be no discussion of an application, request, or approval scheduled for the
Public Hearing Item portion of the meeting.

Rules of Conduct for the Planning Commission Meeting
First:

Applications will be introduced by a Staff Member.

Second:

The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

Third:

The Community Council representative can present their comments.

Fourth:

Persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

Fifth:

Persons opposed to the application will be invited to speak.

Sixth:

The applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

•

Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chairman.

•

Because the meeting minutes are recorded it is important for each speaker to state their name
and address prior to making any comments.

•

All comments should be directed to the Planning Commissioners, not to the Staff or to
members of the audience.

•

For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chairman may impose a time
limit, usually 2 minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson.

•

After the hearing is closed, the discussion will be limited to the Planning Commission and
the Staff.

