30 Nov 2021
To Whom It May Concern,
I am writing this letter to register my opposition to the 634-acre “Tree Farm LLC” open pit mine that
is proposed for lower Parleys Canyon.
I have reviewed the 344-page Notice of Intent (NOI)1, and I believe that the filing is incomplete.
Of primary concern, it makes no mention of the approximately 100 homes and cabins that are
located near the proposed open pit mine site2. My own home, shared with my wife and children, is
located less than 1/4 mile from the boundary of the proposed mine site. That is less than two city
blocks away; almost shouting distance. Yet neither my family nor any of my neighbors were
notified of this proposal.
Mr. Jesse Lassley, Tree Farm LLC’s principal who filed the NOI, knows that the Mount Aire
community exists. How does he know? Because several years ago he built a luxury cabin in Mount
Aire – but sold it before filing the NOI. Conspicuously, the NOI fails to explain how nearby
homes might be impacted.
This mine poses a direct danger to my family, my home, and the surrounding community. The
company’s proposal states that heavy machinery and explosives will be used in operations. Per
maps provided by the company, mining activity is planned for the backside of the same bluff that our
home is built on. Might our quality of life be affected? Absolutely. To provide context, the Harper
Company rock quarry is located further down Parleys Canyon, approx 2.25 miles from our home.
Even at that distance, we can occasionally hear the dull thump of explosives inside our home. How
might explosives detonated 0.25 miles away from a residential community sound and feel? At
two blocks away, explosions are likely to shake our walls and windows. Studies published by the US
Bureau of Mines and other organizations document damage to structures located up to four
miles away from mine sites3. By my calculations, every home in Mount Aire sits within a 1.5 mile
radius of mine boundaries. Many homes are less than a half-mile away. The community’s water tank
is located 8/10ths of a mile away. The danger is real and myriad. Rumbling of heavy machinery
combined with frequent blasts could loosen rocks and boulders above homes, endangering
lives. Detonations in rock could cause liquefaction beneath homes4, resulting in structural
damage or collapse. In winter, vibrations could trigger avalanches that collapse homes, spill over
1

When this letter was written, the 344-page Notice of Intent (NOI) document was posted at
https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/M0350054/2021/Incoming/11122021.pdf. However, the document
disappeared from that site sometime around Dec 2, 2021, and has moved twice more since. It can still be viewed on archive.org:
https://web.archive.org/web/20211124133813/https://fs.ogm.utah.gov/FILES/MINERALS/PERMITS/035/M0350054/2021/Incoming/1
1122021.pdf
2

The NOI makes no acknowledgement of the nearby 100+ home community, aside from a mention of Mount Aire water well:
- Page 59: “Generally, it is surrounded by National Forest System lands on the south and west and private land on the north.”
- Page 195: AECOM report mentions Mount Air water well supplying water to approximately 103 residents.
- Page 200-205: A water well report for Mount Aire community, with a “Residential” column showing residential water use.
3

"The duration of vibrations increases with moving from the source. This phenomenon is particularly displayed in saturated soils
and areas where soil deposit is underlain by rock. For such soil conditions, Siskind and Stagg (2000) obtained interesting results in
measurement of ground vibrations at distances 1.6-6.4 km from quarry blasting.” … … “Blasting can produce the most extensive
ground and structure vibrations, and dynamic effects range from intact structures to considerable structural damage. Siskind (2000)
presented the accumulated results of research studies accomplished by the U.S. Bureau of Mines (USBM) and others on vibrations
from blasting and their effects on low-rise houses…"
Svinkin, M. “Soil and Structure Vibrations from Construction and Industrial Sources.” Missouri S&T, Aug 14 2008, pg 2.
https://scholarsmine.mst.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2969&context=icchge
4

“Ground vibrations can produce direct vibration effects on structures and trigger resonant structural vibrations of adjacent
and remote structures. However, under certain circumstances such as a combination of non-cohesive soil deposits and ground
vibrations, elastic waves can be the cause of plastic soil deformations, e.g. liquefaction, densification and soil settlements.”
Svinkin, M. “Soil and Structure Vibrations from Construction and Industrial Sources.” Missouri S&T, Aug 14 2008, pg 2 (emphasis
mine). https://scholarsmine.mst.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=2969&context=icchge

yards and trails, and bury the road that serves the canyon, posing lethal risks to homeowners. To my
knowledge, no risk assessment of any of the surrounding structures has been performed.
Consider air quality. The NOI mentions silica in the rock formations it will be mining5. Silica particles
are known to cause silicosis, lung cancer, renal cancer, kidney disease, and other incurable
ailments6. The company intends to extract limestone – over a billion tons of it. The company has
disclosed that as much as 20% of the material extracted will end up as “waste material [which] can
consist of very fine limestone powder”7. From my research, crushed limestone is rated a Category
1A Carcinogen, Category 2 Specific Organ Toxicity, Category 2 Skin Corrosion, and Category 2A
Eye Irritant8. This mine is located upwind, in close proximity to a large population in the Salt
Lake Valley. The fact that a 344-page report glosses over such safety concerns is inexcusable.
Airborne byproducts from the mine could endanger not only the Mount Aire community, but
thousands of families in Millcreek, Canyon Rim, Sugarhouse, Olympus Cove, the Country Club area,
and perhaps further afield.
Consider the prevailing winds: As East Bench residents can attest, Parleys Canyon frequently
experiences strong winds, typically blowing down the canyon. Indeed, wind speed measurements in
lower Parley’s Canyon show that in just the last 60 days, 20 days experienced winds and gusts
above 25 miles per hour9. Why is 25 mph relevant? Utah Administrative Code R307-309-5(3),
which reads like an exception clause, dictates that mine owners need not meet dust Opacity
regulations when winds exceed 25mph10. Why would such an exemption even exist? Because
apparently, lawmakers and the mining industry recognize that dust is too hard to contain in high
5

From the NOI, page 16 (emphasis mine): “The Gartra Grit Member is composed of whitish, pinkish white sandstone that is
massive, coarse grained, and silica cemented (Ashland et. al, 1996)". Additionally, page 8 states: “Occasional rock types… such
as mudstone, siltstone, and sandstone will be encountered.” My research indicates that mudstone and sandstone are both
composed primarily of silicates.
6

“Breathing in very small ("respirable") crystalline silica particles causes multiple diseases, including silicosis, an incurable lung
disease that leads to disability and death. Respirable crystalline silica also causes lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease (COPD), and kidney disease. Exposure to respirable crystalline silica is related to the development of autoimmune
disorders and cardiovascular impairment.”
United States Department of Labor, “Silica, Crystalline” https://www.osha.gov/silica-crystalline/health-effects
7

In the NOI, page 8: “It is estimated that mine and processing waste (not including overburden), will average around 20% by weight.
This waste material can consist of a very fine limestone powder generated from breakdown due to handling and crushing.”
8

Extract from a limestone fact sheet published by Heidelberg Cement Group:
“Limestone may be subjected to various natural or mechanical forces that produce small particles (dust) which may contain
respirable crystalline silica (particles less than 10 micrometers in aerodynamic diameter). Repeated inhalation of respirable
crystalline silica (quartz) may cause lung cancer according to IARC and NTP; ACGIH states that it is a suspected cause of cancer. “
GHS product identifier: Limestone
Other means of identification: Crushed Stone, Calcium Carbonate, Aggregate
GHS Classification:
CARCINOGENICITY – Category 1A
SPECIFIC TARGET ORGAN TOXICITY – Category 2
REPEATED EXPOSURE SKIN CORROSION/IRRITATION – Category 2
EYE DAMAGE/IRRITATION – Category 2A
Hazard statements:
May cause cancer
May cause damage to organs (lung) through prolonged or repeated exposure
Causes skin irritation
Causes serious eye irritation”
Lehigh Hanson, Heidelberg Cement Group. “Safety Data Sheet: Limestone”. Jul 01, 2018
https://www.lehighhanson.com/docs/default-source/safety-data-sheets/sds-limestone.pdf
9

Wind reports for lower Parleys Canyon can be found at https://www.windalert.com/spot/27567. Reviewing the last 60 days (Sep 30
to Nov 30), I tallied 20 days that experienced wind/gusts that exceeded 25 mph (40 kph).
10

The NOI on pages 28-29 states: “wind plays a major role in fugitive dust management. Opacity in R307-309-5(1) shall not apply
when the wind speed exceeds 25 miles per hour.” (In other words, dust opacity is allowed to exceed 20% as long as the mine sprays
water before or every hour during the wind event, or lays down chemicals, etc.)

winds… …yet high winds are common at the proposed mine site. Despite whatever fugitive dust
controls the company proposes, surrounding areas will be exposed to airborne dust. This dust will
blow to homes, stores, schoolyards, parks, and golf courses near Parleys Canyon. In fact, dust is
already an ongoing problem in those areas; Canyon Rim homeowners have filed numerous
complaints about dust originating at the existing Harper Company Mine11. To provide context, the
Harper Company mine is “only'' 62 acres in size, while Tree Farm LLC intends to grow its mine to a
massive 634 acres. Worse, Tree Farm LLC has disclosed that it does not intend to perform any
land reclamation activities on disturbed acreage until all mining operations cease in
approximately 100 years12. In other words, their stated intent is to leave hundreds of acres of land,
barren, with neither protective vegetation nor topsoil, exposed to frequent canyon winds, for the next
100 years. Imagine a fine layer of silica-laced dust resting on your fireplace mantle; settling upon
your garden; entering your high school football player’s lungs. Then imagine such conditions existing
for the next century.
How can one company be allowed to engage in activities that pose such significant health risks to
thousands of families? How can the justification be ”It's allowed because it’s on their own property…”
when the company is unable to keep it on their own property?
Consider fresh water sources: Tree Farm LLC’s stated intent is to extract limestone13 -- up to two
million tons per year14. Limestone is a highly porous formation, and the cavities in limestone form
freshwater aquifers. The nearby Mount Aire community is served by one such aquifer and several
artisan springs -- the only source of potable water for the community (as well as the only source
of emergency water for its fire hydrants). These limestone formations in Parleys also contribute to
the water flows depended upon by the Salt Lake Valley. Indeed, Tree Farm LLC admits that at least
one such aquifer exists in their study area, and it feeds Parleys Creek15 (which passes through
Parleys Historic Nature Park, the Country Club Golf Course, Sugarhouse Park, etc.) I believe that
the company is downplaying the threat that this mine poses to our precious watershed16. For
example, I could not find any detailed explanation about where the mine intends to obtain its
water for dust abatement and industry. Most likely, it plans to appropriate a portion of the fresh
water from the surrounding watershed. I believe the company is not being truthful in its
disclosures about the watershed. For example, regarding the mine’s proximity to fresh water, the
NOI claims that Parley Creek will be protected by existing culverts in the canyon. This is false. The
truth is this: Directly in front of the mine site, less than 400 feet away, Parleys Creek exits the

11

Fruhwirth, J. “Harper Companies’ Dust Storms Parley’s Canyon: Canyon Rim Residents Organize to End Pollution from Gravel
Pit.” City Weekly, Aug 17 2010. https://www.cityweekly.net/utah/Content?oid=2147959
12

From the NOI (emphases mine), on page 13: “The size and nature of the site will not allow for concurrent reclamation,
though as stated above, any opportunity to reclaim unused portions of the site will be implemented. As proposed, all acreage to be
disturbed will be covered in topsoil and re-vegetated when mining permanently ceases at the site.” Page 8 repeats “The pit
slope benches will be reclaimed at the end of the mine life.” When will mining permanently cease? When is the end of the mine
life? Page 8 indicates “~100 years.” Astoundingly, per Table 106.3-1, of the 634-acre mine, the “bench face area” of 223 acres
“will not be reclaimed” (ever!) because of its near-vertical slope. The scars of this mine will persist far beyond 100 years from now.
13

From the NOI, page 8: “The limestone of the Jurassic Twin Creeks formation is the target material for extraction.”

14

From the NOI, page 8: “Tree Farm is estimating an initial 500,000 tons of material (base rock) on an annual basis for the first
three to five years of operation and increasing to more than 2,000,000 tons per year.
15

From the NOI, page 16 acknowledges aquifers in the area: “...the shallow aquifer feeding Parleys Creek from the study area…
Ppg 18-20 mentions artisanal flows, aquifers, blasting and residue effects on groundwater, and states that the company anticipates
that any groundwater will sit below 5300 ft elevation.
16

“Over 50% of the drinking water consumed by residents of Salt Lake City comes directly from the protected watersheds. Salt Lake
City is quite unique in that its population resides so close to its watershed source waters.”
The University of Utah, “Watersheds and the Wasatch: Did You Know?” Aug 4, 2020
https://water.utah.edu/2020/08/14/watersheds-and-the-wasatch-did-you-know/

culverts, and flows along its riverbed, shaded by scrub oak, openly exposed to
contamination from mine dust and debris across the street17.
It would be short-sighted and irresponsible for our government to allow a mining company to
settle atop our watershed, and then blast away and pulverize our limestone formations at the risk of
permanently damaging aquifers, drying up springs, and contaminating the water flows that
are so vital to Salt Lake Valley.
Consider the project site; the visual blight that not only our residents would have to tolerate for
the next hundred years, but a festering wound that millions of tourists annually would pass by on
their way to Utah’s resorts. Consider the sheer scope of the project: The proprietor, Mr Lassley
is on record, having recently said that the mine would start at less than 20 acres and not be easy
to see from the highway18. I believe that this statement was a calculated attempt to obscure the
true extent of the project from public scrutiny, so as to gain a foothold in the canyon. In reality, as
described by its own Notice of Intent, Tree Farm LLC has requested permission to create a
gaping crater in the hillside, commencing mere feet from the south side of I-80, penetrating
approximately 1.5 miles into the south face of Parleys Canyon; spanning 634 acres;
obliterating three mountain peaks and numerous ridges, carving tiered walls of dirt that
tower nearly a half-mile above the highway19. How can this site be “hidden?” Over 60,000
vehicles20 drive past the site every day.
In terms of acreage, Tree Farm mine would be nearly one-third the size of Bingham Copper
Mine21. More mature cities in other states would not tolerate such an embarrassing, irresponsible
eyesore on their doorstep.
These are just a few of many concerns. Others worth consideration, briefly:
●

Significantly increased truck traffic, as well as stray rocks and gravel on the highway,
pose a material risk to the 60,000+ vehicles that navigate I-80 past the mine site on a daily
basis.

17

From the NOI, page 195: "Parleys Creek is the main hydrologic feature in the canyon and now flows in a culvert beneath
Interstate 80. No open channel flow remains in the bottom of the Canyon near the project area." This is observably untrue. In reality,
Parleys Creek exits the culvert directly across the street from the mine site, and flows approximately 1/4 mile down the canyon,
exposed to mining activity. Maps on the US Geological Society’s website clearly display this open creek bed, and the Interactive
Map reveals that it sits less than 400 feet from the mine site. Map: Parleys Creek near proposed mine site.
18

"Lassely said the quarry would be in an area that would make it very hard to see from the highway, and he said they’re working to
avoid impacts to wildlife in the area, too."
Anderson, M. “Proposed mine in Parleys Canyon draws concern for homeowners, environment.” KSL TV News, Nov 29, 2021.
https://ksltv.com/477767/proposed-mine-in-parleys-canyon-draws-concern-for-homeowners-environment/
19

Referencing the NOI, the true scope of the project comes into focus. Page 7-8 states: "Tree Farm will disturb a maximum area of
634 acres on the property." (By comparison, the unsightly Harper Co mine is 62 acres.) Page 8 indicates that the mine will have a
life of "~100 years." Page 17 states that the targeted limestone formation is "approximately 2600 feet thick" Page 18 states that 1.1
billion tons of material will be extracted. Page 39 shows a topo map overlaid by mine boundaries; the boundaries extend along
Interstate 80 and encompass numerous ridgelines and at least three peaks. Page 8 states: “It is assumed that all 634 acres will be
disturbed at one time during the life of the mine.” Page 42 shows a final stage elevation map -- the low end of the quarry flanks I-80,
and the open pit penetrates into the south side of Parleys Canyon – clearly visible from the highway. The mine “floor” sits at 5300 ft
elevation, while it’s quarry walls rise to over 7500 ft elevation, nearly a half-mile vertically. Measurements on Google Maps reveal
that this massive crater will stretch approximately 1.55 miles to the southwest, torn deep into the mountainside. Indeed, this
company intends to excavate an entire man-made canyon in our Foothills, a mere three minutes away from Salt Lake Valley.
20

Hoyt, James. “With Parleys Canyon overhaul, Park City-Salt Lake City commute could change dramatically.” Park Record, 29
February 2020.
https://www.parkrecord.com/news/park-city-salt-lake-city-commute-could-change-in-the-coming-decades-as-transportation-officials-c
onsider-overhauling-mouth-of-parleys-canyon/.
21

“The [Bingham Copper] mine has been in production since 1906, and has resulted in the creation of a pit over 0.75 miles (1,210
m) deep, 2.5 miles (4 km) wide, and covering 1,900 acres (3.0 sq mi; 7.7 km2).”
“Bingham Canyon Mine.” Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bingham_Canyon_Mine. Accessed 4 December 2021.

●

●

●

Elevated fire dangers22 imposed upon not only the Mount Aire community but the entire
sub-range which extends to Millcreek Canyon, Summit Park, Lambs Canyon, and beyond; a
potential for wildfire to be sparked by any one of the hundreds23 of industrial 18-wheelers
driving off-highway during dry months.
Affected wildlife. The company acknowledges24 the presence of herds of wintering elk,
moose, black bear, mountain lion, and other big game, as well as species like the golden
eagle25 and the endangered Canada lynx26. While the company provides a fairly extensive list
of animals, it’s silent about many of our other vulnerable friends: the porcupines, the red foxes,
the tiny saw-whet owls, shy long-tailed weasels, flying squirrels, pollinating bees, skunks,
grouse, hummingbirds, the susceptible Bonneville cutthroat trout27, and many other species
that live in the area, all of which stand to be adversely affected by the company’s blasts and
strip mining activity.
Impact to popular recreation destinations nearby, including hiking trails on the northern hip
of Grandeur Peak (from beneath which the company intends to extract rock), the Wasatch
Trail, Parley’s Historic Nature Park, rock climbing wall The Iron Curtain, and the Parley’s Trail,
as well as many bike paths, nature trails, and campgrounds in Millcreek Canyon.

How can one business venture present so much risk to so many people, with so little upside and so
little accountability? Citizens are outraged, and rightly so. This open pit mine does not serve Utahn’s
interests. It is bad for our environment. It poses immediate threats as well as serious, prolonged
dangers 100 years from now. Fortunately, this is not hard to remedy – not yet. Right now, at this
moment, we have an opportunity to do what is right: Do not allow this quarry to be built at our
doorstep.
Regards,
Justin Wilde

22

Historical Mount Aire community is served by a single road commencing at this same location as the proposed truck route. While
the community has fire hydrants, homes generally employ Defensible Space, and residents are keenly aware of fire danger, no
homeowner could have anticipated the extreme risk posed by hundreds of industrial trucks driving past the mouth of the canyon
along a frontage road surrounded by drygrass, sage, and shrubs. A wildfire sparked by just one truck during dry season could
devastate the entire area, and pose lethal risk to numerous surrounding communities as well.
23

“Lassley’s plan is to produce 500,000 tons of limestone a year for the first 3 to 5 years of operation, then ramp up to 2 million tons
or more, the document said. To move that much limestone would require 137 truck trips a day at 40 tons per load.”
Maffly, B. “Major limestone quarry proposed for Parleys Canyon.” Salt Lake Tribune, Nov 24, 2021.
https://www.sltrib.com/news/environment/2021/11/24/major-limestone-quarry/
From the NOI, page 28: “Tree Farm will access the site via the Mount Aire exit and the UDOT frontage road along the south side of
I-80” In terms of frequency, that’s one 18-wheeler or dump truck rumbling out to the mine or back every 3.5 minutes, 16 hours a day.
24

From the NOI, page 24-26: “The project area overlaps approximately 629.1 acres of wildlife habitat… Due to the large size of the
project and the fairly narrow width of Parleys Canyon, habitat connectivity would be somewhat disrupted for terrestrial species
moving east or west, up or down the canyon.”
25

From the NOI, page 23: “Figures 10 and 11 show two potential golden eagle nests on cliffs in the project boundary.” (The NOI
posits that when the nests are destroyed by mining activities, any affected golden eagles ought to be able to find another place to
nest.)
26

From the NOI, page 20: “The large home range, elusive nature, and wide-ranging movement patterns of the Canada lynx make
surveying for this species difficult. Therefore, no surveys were completed for this species. Based on the poor quality of the habitat
present and the distance from known lynx populations, it is assumed that this species would rarely utilize the project area.”
27

“The Bonneville Cutthroat Trout (BCT) is listed as a “Tier I Conservation Species” by the State of Utah, as a “Sensitive Species” by
the US Forest Service, as a “Rangewide Imperiled (Type 2) Species” by the Bureau of Land Management, and as a “Vulnerable
Species” by the State of Idaho.” “Bonneville Cutthroat Trout” WesternNativeTrout.org, Updated Jan 2018
https://westernnativetrout.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/BonnevilleCT_WesternNativeTroutStatusReport_UpdatedJanuary-2018.p
df

