From: Jan Hemming <hemmingjan@gmail.com>
To: wgurr@msd.utah.gov, "Laurie L. Stringham" <llstringham@slco.org>, Richard Snelgrove
<rsnelgrove@slco.org>
Subject: Opposition to Parley's Canyon "Tree Farm" mine
Date: Wed, 16 Feb 2022 07:38:46 -0700
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: Screen_Shot_2021-12-14_at_11.47.23_AM.png; Screen_Shot_2021-1214_at_12.08.18_PM.png

Dear Salt Lake County Planning Commission:

I hope that common sense prevails and your Division denies the permit of the Tree Farm LLC to deface and
destroy precious canyon lands in Parley’s Canyon for the purpose of removing 1.1 billion tons of limestone.
(See screen shot of image taken from the permit application:)

Table 106.10-1. Material Quantities.
Material
Topsoil

f Attributes
Trace to 3 ft deep
in valleys

Limestone

I Volume (cy)

Bulk tons

—100,000
498 million

1.1billion

Also, please take a good close look at the current topography and then what will happen to this beautiful,
natural mountainous hillside when the Tree Farm takes blasting devices and mining tools to remove land across
623 acres:

Current Topography

Final Pit
anal Fit coma

iii lli
None of their plans to “recover” this pristine wilderness after it has been destroyed will ever bring it back to its
current and original state. It will be lost forever. Please do not let this happen to one of Salt Lake’s and Utah’s
treasured canyon lands.
The reports about damage to wildlife, big game, birds, vegetation and forests are also alarming. A golden eagle
nest resides on this proposed mining site. Two endangered species will be harmed: the Canadian Lynx and the
Western yellow-billed Cuckoo. It is also suitable habitat for the Northern Goshawk.
Note this disturbing statement about elk in the application: "Due to the size of the project and overlap with crucial
winter habitat, effects from habitat loss and/or habitat fragmentation could be measurable at the population level.” Others
threatened include the black bear, moose, mule deer, and mountain lion.

The project is part of Salt Lake’s watershed. Parley’s Creek flows to the bottom of this site at the canyon floor
and there are ephemeral streams that will be effected at higher elevations. Hundreds of acres of pristine
woodlands and forests — oak, maple and deciduous tree varieties, will be gone.
Imagine driving through Parley’s Canyon on a spring, summer or autumn day and seeing a portion of the
hillside being actively removed by the greedy folks at “Tree Farm.” The area targeted for mining will be
clearly seen from I-80 as cars travel up and down the canyon. Bravo to the Salt Lake County Commissioners
for opposing this project. Please take the same action.
Think of the elevation ranges that will be impacted — 5,250 to 7,560 feet. These are grand peaks and steep
hillsides that deserve to be protected and preserved, not destroyed and defaced.
Respectfully,
Janet (Jan) Hemming
Chair
Yalecrest Neighborhood Council

