Trent Sorensen

Lupita McClenning

Chief Building Official

Director

James McNulty
Planning Manager

Izabela Miller

`

Operations Officer

February 15, 2022

Salt Lake County Council
Attn: Laurie Stringham, Chair
2001 S. State St., N2-200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575
LLStringham@slco.org
RE:

Recommendation and Findings on Proposed Ordinance regarding
mineral extraction and similar uses in the Forestry and Recreation Zone,
Application No. OAM2021-000494

Dear Members of the Salt Lake County Council:
The Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission (“Planning Commission”) considered
the above-referenced proposed ordinance in its February 3, 2022 meeting, a copy of which is enclosed
with this recommendation. The Planning Commission conducted a public hearing on the proposed
ordinance and heard significant public input from the public hearing and reviewed written public
comment submitted prior to the public hearing, which was primarily in favor of the proposed ordinance.
After considering this public comment, the Planning Commission voted unanimously to recommend
approval of the proposed ordinance and made the following findings in support of its recommendation:
• Mineral extraction is incompatible with the stated purposes of the Forestry and Recreation zone and
the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
• Adverse effects of mineral extraction in the Forestry and Recreation zone would include:
o An increase in air and dust pollution
o An increase in noise pollution
o A threat to protected watersheds
o Depletion of water supply
o An increase in wildfire risk
o An increased risk of avalanches and rockslides
o An increase in traffic
o Loss of wildlife habitat
o Destruction of the landscape and ecology
Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street, N3-600 • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
https://msd.utah.gov/msd-home/pds/

Recommendation, App. No. OAM2021-000494
February 15, 2022
Page 2

•
•

Other areas of Salt Lake County permit gravel pits, quarries, and mines.
The proposed ordinance changes are consistent with the following goals and strategies from the
Wasatch General Plan:
o Review and update County Ordinances, as needed, to further implement the vision,
goals, and strategies of the General Plan.
o Ensure the management of watersheds in the Wasatch Canyons to protect water quality
and quantity.
o Maintain and increase the conservation of natural lands that protect ecosystems and
watersheds and provide recreational opportunities.

Pursuant to the direction of the Planning Commission, I hereby issue these recommendations and
findings as the Chair of the Planning Commission. Thank you for your consideration of the same.
Respectfully,

Jim Palmer, Chair
Salt Lake County Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission
Enclosure

Planning & Development Services • 2001 South State Street • Salt Lake City, Utah 84190
www.slco.org/pwpds

