The following citizens have submitted the form email below. These submissions
were received after the amended Mountainous Planning District Planning
Commission packet was posted on the Utah Public Notice website on February 3,
2022.
Benjamin Hewitt, Preston McIllece, Brynne Udy, Susan and Dale Poulter, Lyndee Weaver, Emily Boman,
Kelly Hansen, Carson Darling, Christy Carson, Emily Hawker, Rachel Jones, Spencer King, Fae Hadlock,
Andrew Graham, Ashley Price, John Trout, Sadie Upwall, Taran Loper, Ben Rees, Kasandra Lundquist,
Maddy Browning, Colin Dumke, Alison Myers, Ian Olson, Haley Munson, Jessica Griffths, Anika Jansen,
Brandon Gebo, Alejandro Montes, Taylor Johnson, Eric Polczynski, Vong Martinez, Jonathan Jensen,
Paige Alba, Grace Tyler, Mireille Jawhar, Todd Bryant, Emily Carnahan.

Form email submitted by above list of citizens
Dear SLCo MPD and Commission Wendy Gurr,
Dear Salt Lake Co. Mountainous Planning District and County Planning Commissioners,
Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air
quality and sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the
economic future of our state. To this end, I support the leadership of Salt Lake County’s Mountains
Planning District and the Salt Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation
Zones.
I support the following revisions of Salt Lake County Ordinances:
Prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or
concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand,
gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay
Zone."
Establish a process for the County planning director to decide whether or not a use not listed is
prohibited or related to a conditional or permitted use in the relevant ordinances.
A 600 plus acres mine, or any industrialization of the Wasatch’s watershed is inconsistent with the
values of our communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this
proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value
the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.

The following citizen submitted the form email and added the following additional
comments:
Kaiya Bockino
I have lived in Salt Lake City on and off for the last decade and most recently I'm moving back to the
area and just found out about this devastating project. I am an avid outdoor user and this new mine is
the worst news I've heard in a long time...that's saying a lot since we have to endure 2020 and 2021.
The air quality is already a factor that has impacted not only the environment and our health, but Salt
Lake County has lost a significant amount of money when the Outdoor Retail Show moved because of
the lack of action of addressing air quality. Many business suffered who used to rely on that income
from the event. Further actions such as introducing a mine will prevent events such as the OR Show
and other environmentally-conscious industries from coming to the valley.

