Brent N. Bateman
Attorney at Law
brent.bateman@dentons.com
D 1+ (801) 375-6600

Dentons Durham Jones Pinegar P.C.
3301 N. Thanksgiving Way, Suite 400
Lehi, Utah 84043
United States
dentons.com

April 5, 2022
Via – councilwebex@slco.org
Salt Lake County Council
2001 South State Street N2-200
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114-4575
RE: Public Comment – Ordinance to Eliminate Mineral Extraction
Dear Salt Lake County Council:
I represent Tree Farm, LLC, and submit this comment on my client’s behalf.
I have made multiple efforts over the past several weeks to engage with Salt Lake County regarding the
proposed ordinance to eliminate mineral extraction and processing as a conditional use in the Forestry
and Recreation Zone. With the exception of some very summary and dismissive emails from County
Attorney Zach Shaw, my efforts have largely been ignored. Noting that this matter is again on the County
Council Agenda for today (April 5, 2022), I hereby submit this letter as my public comment for this
meeting.
This ordinance is blatantly contrary to Utah Code 17-41-402(6). This law prohibits adopting or initiating
proceedings to adopt any ordinance that would prohibit Critical Infrastructure Materials operations. As you
are aware, "Critical infrastructure materials" means sand, gravel, or rock aggregate. Utah Code 10-9a901(1). Although I have pointed this out, no one at the County has bothered to explain to me how this
ordinance complies with this state code section. My only guess to justify this ordinance is that it is styled
“an ordinance prohibiting mineral extraction” rather than prohibiting extraction of critical infrastructure
materials. However, this justification fails because the text of the ordinance expressly prohibits extraction
of “sand, gravel and/or rock aggregate.” Thus, where it was not prohibited before, this ordinance clearly
prohibits critical infrastructure materials. Thus, it is illegal.
This ordinance will affect the property rights of not only my client, but of many others. I hope that the
County will press pause and engage in some discussions about this matter. I further hope that it is not the
County’s conscious intention to disobey state law. Thank you for considering my comment.
Very truly yours,
DENTONS DURHAM JONES PINEGAR P.C.

Brent N. Bateman

Durham Jones & Pinegar ► LEAD Advogados ► Rattagan Macchiavello Arocena ► Jiménez de Aréchaga Viana & Brause ► Lee International ►
Kensington Swan ► Bingham Greenebaum ► Cohen & Grigsby ► Sayarh & Menjra ► Larraín Rencoret ► For more information on the firms that
have come together to form Dentons, go to dentons.com/legacyfirms
Dentons is an international legal practice providing client services worldwide through its member firms and affiliates. Please see dentons.com for Legal Notices.

SLC_5827020.1

