Proposed Ordinance
Amendment
SALT LAKE COUNTY
PLANNING COMMISSION
PUBLIC HEARING
FEBRUARY 16, 2022

Background
 County has been engaged in the process of assessing and
considering amendments to the Forestry and Recreation (FR).
 Recent Notices of Intention to begin mining operations with the
Utah Division of Oil, Gas, and Mining, raised the question of
whether mineral extraction and processing should continue to be a
conditional use in the FR zone.
 On December 10, 2021, the Salt Lake County Council voted to
formally initiate proceedings to amend the County Code.
 On February 3, 2022, the Mountainous Planning District Planning
Commission recommended approval of the code amendments.

Proposed Code Amendments
 Eliminate mineral extraction and processing as a
conditional use and explicitly prohibits the same and
similar uses in the Forestry and Recreation (FR) zone.
(Section 19.12.030 )

 Eliminates mineral extraction and processing as a use
for which waivers can be granted in the Foothills and
Canyon Overlay Zone (FCOZ). (Section 19.72.190 )
 Provides clarification regarding how permitted and
conditional uses are classified. (Section 19.76.030 )

Public Notice (Utah Code 17-27a-205)
 Community Council Notice (12/17/2021)
The notice explained how Community Councils may submit
comments and provide comments to the Planning Commission
 Public notice was mailed to affected entities (1/13/2022)
 Notice posted in three public locations and on the Utah Public
Notice Website (>10 days prior to hearing)
 Public comments distributed to the Planning Commission and
posted on the website
 Approximately 1,000 comments received – see no opposition

Purpose of Forestry & Recreation Zone
“The purpose of the forestry and recreation zones is
to permit the development of the foothill and canyon
areas of the county for forestry, recreation, and other
specified uses to the extent such development is
compatible with the protection of the natural and
scenic resources of these areas for the continued
benefit of future generations.” (SLC Code 19.12.010)

Purpose of the
Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
“The general purpose of the foothills and canyons
overlay zone is to promote safe, environmentally
sensitive development that strikes a reasonable
balance between the rights and long-term interests
of property owners and those of the general public. ”
(SLC Code 19.72.010)

Existing Uses Allowed
 Gravel Pits, Quarries and Mines allowed in:
1. S-1-G Zone – The purpose of the S-1-G zone is to
permit extraction of gravel and similar natural
resources in the county.
2. M-2 Zone – The purpose of the M-2 zone is to provide
areas in the county for heavy industrial uses.
 Existing approved, permitted, and operational mineral
extraction/processing and similar uses would be legal
nonconforming uses.

MPD Planning Commission Findings
 Mineral extraction is incompatible with the stated purposes of the Forestry and
Recreation zone and the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone
 Adverse effects of mineral extraction in the Forestry and Recreation zone would
include:
 An increase in air and dust pollution
 An increase in noise pollution
 A threat to protected watersheds
 Depletion of water supply
 An increase in wildfire risk
 An increased risk of avalanches and rockslides
 An increase in traffic
 Loss of wildlife habitat
 Destruction of the landscape and ecology

MPD Planning Commission Findings
Other areas of Salt Lake County permit gravel pits, quarries, and
mines
The proposed ordinance changes are consistent with the following
goals and strategies from the Wasatch General Plan:

 Review and update County Ordinances, as needed, to further implement the
vision, goals, and strategies of the General Plan
 Ensure the management of watersheds in the Wasatch Canyons to protect
water quality and quantity
 Maintain and increase the conservation of natural lands that protect
ecosystems and watersheds and provide recreational opportunities

Options and Recommendation
The Planning Commission has three options:
1. Recommend approval of the ordinance as proposed to
Council; or
2. Recommend approval of the ordinance with amendments
to Council; or
3. Recommend denial of the ordinance to Council.
Staff recommends the Planning Commission recommend
approval as proposed to the Salt Lake County Council.

