The following additional citizens have submitted the form email below. These
submissions were received after the amended Mountainous Planning District
Planning Commission packet was posted on the Utah Public Notice website on
February 2, 2022.
Charles Huff, Laura Monroya, Verla Whippen, Eileen Barlage, Paul Kalka, Meagan Oltman, Keith Motley,
Karen Collett, Carolyn Lewis, Andrew Lewis, Monique Stark, Jim Loveland, James McCloskey, Rachael
Neumann, Phyllis Anderson, Jasmine Sayre, Matthew Vukin, Erik Badger, Kristy Carlson, John Barrett,
Sarah Hallam, Taylor Cox, Lucy Nebeker, Whitney Brady, Ian Zalles, Terra Pace, Tina Black, Annecia
Wolsey, Stephanie Shotorbani, Jadwiga Frasol, Hannah Thielges, Ellen Young, Annie Glenn, Travis Van
den Broeke, David Lloyd, Meisha Thomas, Ross Miller, Tony Aversano, Alison Vallejo, Catherine Lilly, Eric
Migacz, Karen Migacz, Paula Child, Carol Raborn, Jess Nutt, Jared Crocker, Magali Lequient, Sheila
Walsh-McDonald, Amy Schooler, Madisyn Kohler, Leah Pelz, Austin Kohler, Debasish Nayak, Rebecka
Olivares, Marie Hotta, Jane Craigo, Olivia Ward, Zach McClellan, Rachel Montague, Beth Lacarra, Audrey
Morrison, Emily Mecham, Katherine Meyr, Johanna Purdy, Sean Berry, Robin Shea, Courtney Rada, Deb
DenBraber, Megan Dingman, Jacee Andersen, Jamie Lyon, Haley Danylchuk, Casey Sanders, Margaret
Paydar, Katelyn Smith, Maya Parsons, Natalie Green, Sean Erickson, Ian Ehrlich, Natasha Crocker, Rob
Lea, Catherine Anderson, Dane Taylor, Sharon Mancini, Thomas Grant, Charlotte Localio, Regan Leavitt,
Taylor Wagner, Danielle McGuire, Andrea Fredrick, Jake Davies, Megan Christensen, Emily Draper, Suzie
Ellison, Caroline Gleich, Eliza Smith, Michael Margolies, Steven Breitling, Sarah Hancock, Juli Gerritsen,
Noah Horvath, Kalie Kocherhans, Kirtly Maxfield, Patrick DePaulis, Tracie DePaulis, Mary Paul, Rosie
Grant, Kelley Mills, Lisa Mills.

Form email submitted by above list of citizens
Dear SLCo MPD and Commission Wendy Gurr,
Dear Salt Lake Co. Mountainous Planning District and County Planning Commissioners,
Adding a mine within the most densely populated area of our state that already struggles with poor air
quality and sensitive water resources is a reckless action jeopardizing the health and frankly, the
economic future of our state. To this end, I support the leadership of Salt Lake County’s Mountains
Planning District and the Salt Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation
Zones.
I support the following revisions of Salt Lake County Ordinances:
Prohibit the uses of “mineral extraction and processing; mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers or
concrete batching plants used in connection with and as part of an operation for the removal of sand,
gravel and/or rock aggregate in the Forest Recreation Zone and in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay
Zone."
Establish a process for the County planning director to decide whether or not a use not listed is
prohibited or related to a conditional or permitted use in the relevant ordinances.
A 600 plus acres mine, or any industrialization of the Wasatch’s watershed is inconsistent with the
values of our communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this
proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value
the Wasatch Range.
Thank you for your time and attention.

The following additional citizens submitted the form email and added the
following additional comments:
Linda Rauter
Our daughter lives in Herriman. We have greatly appreciated the beautiful wilderness areas so near to
her home. The mountains are beautiful and provide habitat for large numbers of wildlife. When the
proposal to permit a huge mine in Parley's Canyon came to my attention, I was horrified. Likewise the
proposal for a gondola in Cottonwood. These proposals are not progress, they are devastation.
Bill Rice
I am horrified to learn of the size and scope of the proposed new limestone quarry in Parley's Canyon.
Paul Steinman
It is almost nauseating to imagine the destruction of an entire mountainside in our backyard. We must
prevent these people from destroying such a large portion of Salt Lake City's greatest treasures -- the
Wasatch range.
David Rasmuson
I think that we shouldn't have a mine so close to where we live and recreate. Please stop the parleys
mine.
Julie Williamson
As a local physician and Salt Lake resident, I am against the proposed mine in Parleys canyon for both
the physical and mental health of our community.
Teresa Fuster
A 600 plus acres mine, or any industrialization of the Wasatch’s watershed is inconsistent with the
values of our communities. It threatens our water, ecosystems and quality of life. I applaud this
proposed revision of the ordinance that will speak loudly on behalf of all that depend upon and value
the Wasatch Range. Our communities and future selves will be so proud of these revisions and actions
to protect parleys both as a beautiful place, but also a staple to our home!
Osman Sanyer
With expected population growth in the Salt Lake Valley, recreation areas will come under increasing
pressure. Allowing another mining operation at a valley entry point will result in further degradation
of our air, water, and recreational resources. At some point the Salt Lake Valley will become an
industrialized waste pit. This is the moment to create regulations to prevent that continuing
degradation.
Olivia Webb
The proposal of this mine is not only something the people of Salt Lake oppose vehemently, but it is
an unsustainable solution to our state’s quickly growing population that only serves those who would
profit greatly from a limestone quarrying project in one of the dearest canyons to many Utahns. i M
writing to express my support for the leadership of Salt Lake County’s Mountains Planning District and
the Salt Lake County Planning Commission to amend the Forestry and Recreation Zones. To me, this

seems like a further step in the process of parceling and selling our precious wilderness and
recreational resources that has become commonplace in Utah. After a mining project has destroyed
this land, we will not be able to restore it.
Mark Baer
It does seem - at least to this observer - that this situation is similar to other 'projects' where the
developer threatens enormous development in a play to get the land bought back and 'retired' at a
huge premium. Why else would this project be considered on such a grand scale up front rather than
starting smaller (like most projects) and then seeking expansion? Essentially, this looks like severe
leverage bordering on exploitation. Do you really want to be akin to this?
Jamie Goetz
In short, I am urgently asking you to NOT allow for mining in Parleys Canyon.
As an Indigenous person, too many times our voices go unheard and our actions unseen. Do not
continue the trend of raping indigenous lands across the United States.
Casey Jacketta
In addition, as a mother with a child with asthma & as a seasonal/inversion induced asthma sufferer
myself I’m extremely concerned about the additional pollution and reduction in air quality in the
valley this mining activity will cause.

